The Journal of
E. D. MITCHELL, Ph.D., Editor
RnR reese SSS SS SSS ls SS
VOLUME 13 FEBRUARY, 1942 Number 2
a
ARTICLES A RECREATIONAL GAMES ProGRAM Edna Cole 94
THE CONTRIBUTION OF PHYSICAL EpDUCATION DEFEND DEMOCRACY BY STRENGTHENING
TO FITNESS F. A. Hellebrandt 67 SCHOOLS 98
THE CIVILIAN DEFENSE PHYSICAL FITNESS EDITORIA BA
PROGRAM William L. Hughes 71 ORIALS
NEW ORLEANS James J. A. Fortier 74 FEATURES
A Project Stupy or MENTAL HYGIENE
Commi Proj "6 How WE Do It 102
ommuittee rroject It May I You Kxow 105
IMPROVING COMMUNITY COOPERATION T MAY INTEREST YOU TO ANOM
Helen Schwarte 78 New Books REcEIVED 128
SOMETHING Otp Has BEEN ADDED
NEWS
George T. Stafford 79
GUATEMALA GARB Margaret Mantle Stookey 80 §NaTIONAL ASSOCIATION 100
SANITARY REQUIREMENTS FOR SCHOOL LUNCHES NATIONAL PHYSICAL FITNESS 120
. e . . ~? “we
Joint Committee on Health Problems in Education 83 =WomMeEn’s ATHLETIC SECTION 121
SAFETY PRECAUTIONS vs. LIABILITY THERAPEUTIC SECTION 121
Frances J. Moench °87 MipwestT District ASSOCIATION 122
TRACK AND FIELD IN A PROGRAM OF PHYSICAL STUDENT SECTION 122
EDUCATION FoR GirLS = Gertrude E. Moulton 89 DANCE SECTION 123
_ A WorxKaABLeE PosTuRE PROJECT SouTHWEST District ASSOCIATION 124
Thelma Elliott, Bertha Osnes, Ruby Sanborn 90 CENTRAL DistRIcT ASSOCIATION 125
Wuat Is SupeRIOR PERFORMANCE IN JUNIOR SOUTHERN DIstRIcT ASSOCIATION 126
Hicu ATHLETICS? Roy J. McMurray 92 EASTERN DISTRICT ASSOCIATION 127
OO LL
| AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION
| (A Department of the National Education Association)
BOARD OF DIRECTORS Research 5 Ruth Glassow New Brey creoge Dochat, Marion Purbeck,
| President, Anne Schley Duggan, Texas  22)cfy' gen. Miller New Mexico: Nina B. Lamkin
. State College for Women, Denton School Nutrition: Marietta Eichelberger New York: Arthur L. Howe, Hiram A. Jones,
| President-Elect, Jay B. Nash, New York School Physicians: Margaret Bell Virginia Harvey: Paul Krimmel, William
Uni , ’ ’ Teacher Training: Jackson R. Sharman Saunders, J. F. Williams
. niversity Therapeutic: Loraine Frost North Carolina: d: H. Nettles
| Past-President, H. A. Jones, State Educa- Women's Athletics: Ruth Atwell North Dakota : arry Wienbergen Nc
|. tion Department, Albany, New York — pistrict ASSOCIATION PRESIDENTS: D. Oberteuffern en ON S00PS,
| Vice-President ; (Health Education) ' Central: }. H. Morrison Oklahoma: Bertie Hammond
| Pauline Williamson, Metropolitan Life Eastern: W. F. Meredith Oregon: Lj. Sparks, Paul Washke Frederick
i Midwest: Grace Griffin ennsylvania: E. C. Davis, J. Wynn Fredericks,
Vi Insurance company, Ne, York City Northwest: Virginia Shaw W. F. Meredith, G. W. Mueller
ce-Fresiaent (Fnysical Education’, ©. ‘southern: Ethel J. Saxman Rhode Island: John H. Osterberg
C. Davis, University: of Pittsburgh Southwest: J. W. Coleman South Carolina: Alice Dent
ac_-Denei . t ;
Vice-President (Recreation}, F. R. East STATE ASSOCIATIONS: South Dat ‘ota Myrtle Span e
Exec a, Purdue University . Alabama: G. Kepler Mills, Jessie Garrison Texas: D. K. Brace, L. N. Douglas
ecutive Sec.-Treas., N. P. Neilson, Arizona: Ina Gittings Utah: Leona Holbrook
| 1201 16th St., N.W., Washington, D.C. — Arkansas: Maurice Slay - Vermont; Alice C. Aldrich
Central District, Helen Manley California: Louise Cobb, F. W. Cozens, William Virginia: L. T. Ludwig
E . Dunn, Walter Scott Washington : G. Spencer Reeves, judd Graham
| astern District, W. L. Hughes Colorado: Clare Small West Virginia: Harry L. Samuel, Forrest Clark
| Midwest District, A. H. Pritzlaff Connecticut : Catherine Colton, George Taylor Wisconsin: Elizabeth Ludwig, Frank Stange!
Northwest District, Virginia Shaw claware: G. W. Ayars , yoming: Fi. }. MeCormic
Southern District, Lynn B. Sherrill Florida: Joe Hole, carole Nice AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS:
| Southwest District, E. H. Trethaway Georgia: Leonora Ivey American Academy of Physical Education:
| ADDITIONAL MEMBERS OF lilinois: Iris Boulton’ Nellie B Cochran, C.D. Amer. Physi th Assn.: Catherine Worth
| REPRESENTATIVE ASSEMBLY | inois: Iris Bou Iton Nellie . Cochran, C. D. mer, Pt ysiotherapy n.: Catherine Worth-
SECTIONS : Indiana: Rachel Benton, Paul Williams American School Health Association:
Administrative Directors: Julius Kuhnert lowa: R. O. Abbett, John Johnson C. H. Keene ; ,
Administrative Measurements: V. S. Blanchard Kansas: Helen Saum, Oran Shearer _ Canadian Physical Education Association:
Camping: Doris Peterson Kentucky: C. W. Hackensmith, H. T. Taylor Florence Somers
College Men's Physical Education: Floyd Siewert Louisiana: Frank Beier, Guy Nesom College Physical Education Assn.:
Dance: Theodora Wiesner Maine: C. Harry Edwards Harry A. Scott
Dental Health: George E. Davis Maryland: Fred Crosby, T. C. Ferguson Delta Psi Kappa: Grace O. Hunter
Health Education Teacher Training: H. H. Massachusetts: Marjorie Bouve, Ruth Elliott, National Ass'n Dirs. P. E. for College Women:
Walker Walter Cox Elizabeth Kelly
Health instruction: Louise Strachan Michigan: West }. Altenburg, K. J. McCristal, National Collegiate Athletic Association:
Intramural Athletics: John Van Why Roy McMurray F. W. Luehring
Men's Athletics: William K. Dunn Minnesota: H. K. Jack, C. L. Nordly Phi Delta Pi: Bernice Moss
Mental Health: Mabel Rugen Mississippi: Marguerite Dacey Phi Epsilon Kappa: Wilbur DeTurk
Private Schools: Virginia Richardson Missouri: Rosina Koetting, Pattric Ruth O'Keefe Society of State Directors: Bernice Moss
Public Schools: Dorothy La Salle Montana, Roy Wood Y.M.C.A. Physical Directors’ Society:
Recreation Leadership: Elizabeth E. May Nebraska: Dorothy Zimmerman R. E. Laveaga
Recreation Program: George Gloss Nevada: J. W. Coleman Y.W.C.A. Health Education Directors’ Society:
Recreation Research: Carl Nordly New Hampshire: Maurice O'Leary Edith M. Gates .
eee ag...
_ THE JOURNAL OF HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION. Official MEMBERSHIPS AS FOLLOWS: (Send to 1201] 16th St., N.W., Wash-
lournal of the American Association for Health. Physical Education, ington, D. C.):
and Recreation, 1201 Sixteenth Street, Northwest, Washington, D. C. Professional Membership, including the JOURNAL and the
Published monthly from September to June (10 issues). Editorial and RESEARCH QUARTERLY . . .... .. «4. . « « $5.00
Advertising Office: 311 Maynard St., Ann Arbor, Mich. €&. D. Mitchell, Active Membership (including SOURNAL) ay 2 | @)
Editor; Marc Brouwer, Bus. Mer. Student Membership (including JOURNAL) . ... . . . 1.50
Copyright, 1942, by the A.A.H.P.E.R. Entered as second-class matter, Single Copies . 2. 2. 1. 1 ee ee ee el 35
January 6, 1930, at the Post Office, Ann Arbor, Michigan, under the The contents of previous issues of THE JOURNAL can be found by
\ at of March 3, 1879. - consulting the Education Index in,your library.

a
| PROVIDES an enjoyable, profit- |
<< - _s- d able health education program
- | ' MAKES health popular with pol eee
. ee
| , Oo t puation TRAINS for democratic citizenship .
; Mens nd Curt
posts Functiol | STRESSES improvement in per-
Its PurP sonal and community health
pases ie Sh UE STON ANDO ANSWERS ABOUT TAMPAX ° +
sasmemiecs | Pe mtereees | mire vests | EAT f&s5 G
Seeeeres | Brien eten |S lp.
Seer | tee eee | ES | SESE
>
4 i A NEW SIX-BOOK HEALTH !
_ an _° et SERIES FOR GRADES 3-8 |
B.3 So 7 niet OLR
. By
C. E. Turner and Others |
Boston New York Chicago Adlanta }
) San Francisco Dallas London
with samples and question BOSTON UNIVERSITY |
folders for girl students |
Sargent College 2
For many reasons, physical education instructors will ° ° |
welcome the Tampax Manual for Teachers as a valuable of Physical Education |
teaching aid. First, it treats the menstruation subject |
logically and in understandable anguage. Second, the Founded, 1881 |
manual is prepared from historical and scientific data }
providing a source of authentic information. Third, it :
contains numerous charts that graphically illustrate a e |
subject which is of utmost importance to every athletic —
girl. Indicate on the coupon below the number of Academic degree of BACHELOR OF
manuals you can use. SCIENCE IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ,
_ The Tampax internal method for sanitary protection granted on completion of four-year course
is comparatively new. Naturally, your girl students will ‘1 the th d . € Physical :
ask such questions as: Is Tampax safe? Is it comfortable? In the theory and practice off nysiea
W hat makes Tampax soabsorbent? Who can use it? These Education. Five months’ instruction at 3
and many other questions are answered in the Tampax Camp, Peterborough, New Hampshire, in
‘““Question-and-Answer” folder. Send for a supply of June and September. A major course in
these folders for distribution to your students along with Physical Therapy, given with the coopera- )
your request for the Teacher’s Manual. Also indicate be- tion of the School of Medicine of the 3
ow the number of free Tampax samples you require. University, may be chosen at the end of
two years. For young women graduates of ,
USE COUPON BELOW high school, with particular qualifications.
—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_——_ —_—_ —_ — —_  — eee een College Appointment Bureau for graduates.
TAMPAX incorporated, New Brunswick, N J.
Please send me the following quantities of material:
( ) Teacher's Manuals e
( ) Samples
s i H—-22—-N
( ) Student's Question & Answer Folders J NELSON S. WALKE, Ph.D. Dean }
IN AME 42 Everett Street, Cambridge, Mass. |
ADDRESS______L__EE SSS }
CITY —s—s———CC CST ATT ELC _ a
,
66 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION
d

The Contribution of Physical
Education to Fit
And Its Relation to Preventive Medicine.
By
F. A. HELLEBRANDT, M. D.
From the Department of Physiology |
: University of Wisconsin
}: HE contemporary functions of American physical- | masses of our people and thus improve the national
Ta education seem to number at least three: to physique. The question which comes to mind at once
supply an exercise program suitably fitted to the is this: does physical education have an analagous re-
needs of the people; to cooperate with the physician lation to medicine? In what manner are physical
and nurse in the furtherance of health education; and education and medicine pooling their resources for the
to share with many other agencies such important mis- | common good? I propose to answer these questions,
cellaneous tasks as guidance in the wise use of leisure _in part because I have an academic interest in the high
time, in the development of personality, and in under- _ potentialities of such coaction. In doing so, I shall
standing the privileges, obligations, morals, and ethics use the scientific method, the first principle of which
of democratic group living} Each of these functions is to gather the evidence, pro and con, from far and
assumes especial importance during times of national near. I propose then, to search for orientation and
stress. To build morale, improve fitness, and conserve perspective by examining into the relations of physical
manpower are conceded widely to be imperative to the | education to medicine and the biological sciences in
preservation of our mode of life. lands other than our own, older than our own, often
‘The simplest and most basic purpose of physical edu- | more mature, and above all else, in lands which have
cation is to improve the fitness of the physical body in _ already faced the crisis.
the same sense that mental education trains the mind
and religious teaching elevates ethical concepts. ' [This THE problems which confront the physical education
fundamental objective of physical education is identical profession uniquely as it contemplates its contribu-
with that of preventive medicine. In fact, it is quite tion to the present emergency effort have already been
logical to consider physical education one among the — met by a succession of peoples in the great family of
gamut of functions commonly allotted to preventive nations. The American crisis of today is but a part |
medicine. Broadly considered, this branch of medi- of a world revolution. In the years immediately prior
cine concerns itself with the following tasks: the diag- _— to the onset of the war, one nay witness in a half dozen
hosis and correction of remedial defects before they — countries on the other side of the Atlantic, the rapid
produce incapacitating disease; the institution of pro- evolution of physical training programs aimed specifi-
phylactic measures to protect against infection and cally at national fitness. The origin of these cannot be
Injury ; the assessment and betterment of the nutritional assigned to spontaneous generation. No more so than
state of the people ; and the cultivation of physical fit- the contemporary impetus of American interest in
ness by virtue of improvement in general hygiene. The — morale and physical fitness. It would seem important
latter includes . adequate exercise administered in a then, that the student of American physical education
manner compatible with the derivation of its maximal = examine critically the technical aspects of the effort
benefits. . 7 already put forth by leaders in other lands. This is
Preventive medicine draws upon the help of num- the obvious first step.
erous specialists in the discharge of its manifold func- Some months ago there came to my desk a publi-
tions, as for example, the industrial physician, public cation of The South African Institute for Medical Re-
, health nurse, school doctor, Sanitary engineer, and search..* It was titled Training and Efficiency—an
biochemist. At the present time nutritional experts = Experiment in Physical and Economic Rehabilitation.
in the profession of home economics are standing Its senior author was Ernst Jokl, sport physician,
shoulder to shoulder with the physician in a conspicu- exercise physiologist, writer of many scientific papers,
ously successful alliance of great value to the Federal head of the Department of Physical Education at the
Government in its efforts to better the nutrition of the Witwatersrand Technical College in Johannesburg,
A paper presented before the Physical Education Section ___
_ Of the meeting of the Wisconsin Education Association, Mil- * Superior figures refer to numbered Bibliography at end
| Waukee, Nov. 7, 1941. of article.
|
FEBRUARY. 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 67

i oc
_
S:.
*, and consultant on the medical aspects of physical edu- = at_large. Exercise is a legitimate therapeutic and
. cation to the South African Defense Force. prophylactic agent of physical medicine, which, how-
. . As early as 1936 the Committee on Physical Educa- ever, has potential dangers as well as benefits. This
. tion of the British Medical Association published a is a property which exercise holds in common with
i comprehensive report on the necessity for the cultiva- drugs used from time immemorial in the practice of
ye tion of the physical development of the civilian popula- medicine. When propagandistic advantages, 1mportant
é tion of England, and issued a set of outstandingly sound though they be, outweigh the foundational value of
a - recommendations as to the methods to be pursued in knowledge, the technical and scientific leadership of
cn the attainment of such an objective.?_ This study, in- American physical education can hardly escape the
oo itiated by the medical profession, subsequently formed challenge to examine into the probable causes of the
—_ the backbone of the government’s Physical Training difference in approach. Have we forgotten that “knowl-
a and Recreation Act,? and served as a lesson to the edge is power,” and that to be rationally defensible, the
ol awakening “Keep-Fit Campaign.” } assumptions that underlie our contribution to the de-
<2 In March of 1939 the British Medical Research  fense effort must be rooted in fact?
oo . Council agreed to advise the Board of Education on
a investigations which might be carried out at the uni- THE importance of physical education has been ap-
sj . versities and teaching hospitals so as to provide a preciated from about the Renaissance onward. In
ae much needed scientific basis for the national physical the early seventeenth century, John Amos Komensky
me training movement. The British Medical Research (Comenius), father of the science of education, preached
a Council accordingly appointed Sir Henry Dale, dis- the values of universal physical training, but it was
bat _ tinguished physiologist and Nobel prize winner in not until some two hundred years later that popular
ae medicine, as chairman of its Physical Exercise Research systems of exercise began to appear. The names of
vo Committee.* Jahn, Ling, Jacques-Dalcroze, and Neils Bukh are
: When determining its program of work for 1937-38- familiar enough. Too little is yet known of the epoch
3 39, the Health Organization of the League of Nations between the World Wars of the twentieth century. This
a - decided to include physical education.® It therefore pro- —_ gave birth to a number of mass physical training move-
- posed the appointment of a Commission on Physical ments, highly chauvinistic in philosophy, inseparable
ec Fitness “to formulate the scientific bases of rational from political issues and military aspirations. I refer
Re physical education adapted to different ages.” In May in particular to the physical fitness program of the
ia of 1937 an international group of experts convened in Soviet Union, “For Labor and Defense,” the ‘Hitler
Ec , Geneva for the purpose of advising the Health Or- Youth” and “Strength Through Joy” movements of
Ey ganization. This Commission on Physical Education National Socialist Germany, and the strongly military
E : had as its chairman Laugier, Professor of Physiology Fascist youth organizations of Italy. As far as our
i at the Sorbonne. It included in its membership the fragmentary evidence goes, these have had a telling
7 British physiologist McSwiney; Dill of the Fatigue — effect upon the peoples concerned. The kernel of
i Laboratory at Harvard; Hansen, director of the Insti- their programs has been hard disciplined exercise.
. tute for the Theoretical Study of Gymnastics, Copen-  _— motivated by the inspired belief that it is the moral duty
| hagen; Wroczynski, former School Medical Inspector of every individual to keep himself fit for only a fit
. _ at the Ministry of Education, Warsaw; and Col. Bauer =_man is an asset to the State. These have not been
a of the Swiss National Association of Physical Educa- = programs of exercise for the fun of it, for leisure-time :
= tion. In May of 1939 the name of Hernando Ordonez. occupation, the development of personality, or social
mT Director of the Institute of Physical Education, Bogota, success through game skills. Perhaps they too have _
; was added.® In view of the recognized development of | achieved these desirable things, but if so, only as the
7 physical education for women, Phyllis Spafford, sec- by-product of an endeavor with objectives superseding
- retary of the Ling Physical Education Association of — personal aggrandizement. When in 1936 the British
Great Britain, was also appointed.’ Just prior to the | Physical Training Delegation viewed the program in
outbreak of the War, the physiologists Hansen and Germany, its members were struck by the seriousness
7 McSwiney carried out a League-sponsored study tour — with which the youth and the adult regarded physical
_ to determine the contemporary status of physical train- training.!° There was a popular demand for a vast
. ing on the Continent, which might then serve as a back- _— activity program, not because it was interesting in it-
ground for the recommendations of the Commission on self, not because it provided agreeably pleasant ways
Physical Fitness.® of spending leisure time, nor even because it promoted
, It is instructive to compare these essentially scholarly | good health. Rather, the program spelled a positive
1 approaches with the character of the American attack attack on defeatism and decadence; to cite the British
on a common problem, which has been to delegate it to report, Germany demanded it to satisfy her own selt-
former sport champions whose names are popular with respect, to insure her safety and assure her victory in
the lay public.® Much of the advice given by these fine the event of war.
exponents of championship skill in sport is undoubtedly
| sound. However, since it has been arrived at by the T is illuminating to contrast the activities of the Con-
method of empiricism without rationalism, the danger tinental countries in this sphere with the British
- lies in the wisdom of its application to the population “Keep-Fit Campaign” and its Physical Training and
68 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION
actin. |
‘

Recreation Act. Early in 1937 the British Govern- | women, one for England and Wales and the other for
ment began to promote measures calculated to improve = Scotland, and two grants committees of three people
the national physique. Its aim was “to inculcate a each to consider the applications for financial aid.
wider realization that physical fitness has a vital part © These were to be provided with technical assistants
to play in promoting a healthy mind and human happi- _ from the staffs of the Board of Education and the Min-
ness.”!! First, attention was to be given to the securing istry of Health, so that problems on the borderline be-
of suitable provisions for physical training in the | tween the Government’s educational and health services
“schools. Second, attention would be given to the proper = might be properly coordinated. Before the end of Feb-
preparation of the teacher. Plans were immediately | ruary 1937 there was a local organization subcom-
discussed for the establishment of a National College mittee, a technical policy subcommittee, and a propa-
of Physical Training, which would concern itself, ganda subcommittee. It is interesting to observe that
among other things, with the scientific foundations of | by May 1939, more than two years later, the National
physical education. Facilities would be made suitable Fitness Council of England and Wales met and agreed
for a good program and, finally, the Government would upon a definition of fitness. I have dealt with the rise
coordinate the work of central organizations whose and decline of this movement elsewhere.!?

primary function it was to stimulate local effort. It Contemporary with the presentation of the Govern-
would draw together the activities of such groups as = ment’s Physical Training and Recreation Bill, much
the Ling Association of Teachers, the League of Health = was being written about the physical status of the
and Beauty, the English Folk Dance and Song Society, British people. The lay press and medical journals
the Institute of Margaret Morris Movement, the Na- — were deploring the physical decay of the average man."®
tional Association of Organizers of Physical Education, For example, The Lancet and The British Medical
the Scouts, Girl Guides, Boys’ and Church Lads’ Journal contained numerous references to the health
Brigades, Y. M.C. A. and Y. W.C. A. It would make — of conscripts as compared with the soldier of the
use of the expert personnel of such advisory bodies as World War days. This is not unlike contemporary
the Central Council of Recreative Physical Training, trends at home. '* The British medical profession
the National Playing Fields Association, the Juvenile placed its full official weight behind the fitness move-
Organizations Committee, and the National Council of | ment. But Government priming and medical support
Social Service. Before formulating any proposals, the |= were not enough. It was admitted in Parliamentary

_ Government opened three ‘fundamental questions of | debate that the movement, which had gotten off to a
policy” to general discussion. These were: “Should — good start, had collapsed before it could materialize.
attendance be voluntary or compulsory?” “Should Soon it was handicapped irreparably by the advent of

_ the scheme be built up anew from the start, or should — the War.

it be based on development of existing agencies?”

“What should be included within the scope of physical Avocize. of the medical aspects of the British.
training and recreation?” Needing a body qualiffed to experiment shows that fitness was being preached
give expert advice on the practical problems involved. to an unresponsive nation. The Government failed to
the Government proposed and subsequently appointed inculcate any wide realization of the desirability of
two national advisory councils of about thirty men and physical fitness for its own sake. The question which

National Physical Fitness P
The National Coordinators appointed by the Uni- — Office of Civilian Defense. We are recommending
ted States Office of Civilian Defense for the promo- that these materials be checked by the various gov-
tion of the Physical Fitness Program Through ernmental and educational agencies concerned with
Schools and Colleges have developed recommen- the promotion of such activities.
dations pertinent to this program at the elementary, It 1s hoped that these recommendations, endorsed
. secondary, and college levels. These recommenda- by the proper authorities, will be available for print-
| tions contain platforms and policies for gearing our — ing in the March issue of the JouRNAL oF HEALTH
programs of health, physical education, and recrea- AND PHysICcAL EDUCATION.
tion into the national emergency. Meanwhile, intensify and expand your programs
Materials prepared by these coordinators, assisted —_ of health, physical education, and recreation, with em-

: by consultants, are being submitted to the Director phasis upon those activities most conducive to the

of the Physical Fitness Division of the United States development of physical fitness and morale.

|

| FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 | 69

, arises is this: is physical fitness ever sufficiently desira- | democratic people so effectively that that organization
ble for its own sake to make men willing to sweat and is today one of the most potent factors in keeping alive
sacrifice, subjecting themselves to the rigorous program — the hope, fitness, and morale of a subjugated nation.
of self-control and systematic exercise necessary to These were some of the major tenets-of Tyrs:
attain the trained state? The fact that generations There does not exist in this world any condition too good
upon generations of men the world over have repeatedly —_ for betterment. . . .
girded their loins for a cause greater than self is one of Search diligently for that which is new. Whatever is done
the illuminating revelations of human history. Know- im our branch of knowledge by men elsewhere, let us know and
ing this, it is curious to observe that the fitness pro- eneral it, Every original idea must belong to the cause in
gram was aimed primarily at personal gain to be gotten The history of all creation and especially of mankind, repre-
at the cheapest possible cost. To quote, ‘there was to sents an eternal struggle for being... . So reads the common
be no nasty medicine in the form of compulsion.” The — law. None, even the most magnificent past, will guarantee the
activities provided would be social and recreative. The future. The only salvation resides in a healthy and _ active
pleasant movements of the “Keep-Fit” classes must be Present he one who in the time of war would defend his na-
so simple and general that newcomers can enter at any tion, must already be on his guard during the time of peace,
time.’® This was frankly stated to be more important observing all the influence of ruin in life. With his flaming
than the evolution of a progressive scheme of develop- _—s sword of knowledge let him crush and disband the vampires
mental exercises. Since the program was voluntary, 24 bats of darkness in every field.
enjoyment must be the central theme, and the person- Thus wrote Miroslav Tyrs, founder of the Czechoslo-
ality of the teacher the pre-eminent consideration. In vak Sokol.
the correspondence columns of one of the medical
weeklies it was concluded that “natural and enjoyable AVING related physical education to medicine
forms of exercise are better for us in every way than L and having shown the alliance to be a natural
drill and physical jerks.” This, without a shred of and compatible one, let us grasp the challenge thrust
demonstrable evidence and in the face of the fact that into our hands by this brother physical educator of
the Scandinavians had long since shown that a physical- the 19th century and examine into this physical fit-
physical training program based upon gymnastics can pro- ness to which as a profession we are supposed to con-
duce a harmonious development of the body! This, tribute. First, what is the meaning of this word fit-
in the face of the fact that countless numbers of people ness? Second, what are the demonstrably proven phy-
find refreshment and pleasure in the rigorous program _sical resultants of the exercise programs we administer?
of voluntary organizations like the German Turnverein Third, are these resultants the basic elements out of
and the Czech Sokol ! which we may reasonably expect the fit man to emerge’;

British official circles lamented the failure of the Not long ago Prof. Burns addressed the British
average man to respond to the fitness movement. The Association for the Advancement of Science on “The
doctor shook his head and observed regretfully that Assessment of Physical Fitness.”!® What is physical
men must make positive health for themselves.!7 Only fitness, he asked. To quote: “The phrase, physical fit- |
those can be helped who are willing to help themselves. ness, if I may parody Linklater, is a good phrase. ‘We |
Amidst all this, the technical advisors continued to are satisfied with it all unsupported, because it has
utter the age-old aphorisms. It is as though they were acquired a numinous quality.’ It is one of those magical 4
insensible to the fact that men were not exercising, un- phrases ‘which mean so much to use that, when they
conscious of the significance of their reluctance and of are spoken with a proper solemnity, they induce inall
the urgency of the country’s need. To quote, “one part who hear them a willing suspension of the critical |
of the body should never be developed at the expense faculty.’ It is a phrase of many meanings.” Burns |
of another ; and the body should never be developed at then implies that the task of assessing fitness in any |
the expense of mind and spirit.”"5 It was assumed that simple, quantitative, all-revealing way is “well-nigh im-
along with incidental benefits like happiness, a healthy possible.” This view is confirmed in other recent sci-
mind, and an upright, self-reliant character, physical entific papers.2°
fitness could be attained and maintained by the provi- When exercise is systematically pursued it eventually
sion of easy, general, social, and recreative exercises. produces what is known as the trained state. To ac-
The ponderous organization, the superficiality of ob-. complish this, the exercise must be of a considerable
Jectives, the placement of personality above training, severity, repeatedly pushing the machine to the approxi-
and the lack of critical realism are too familiar for any mate limits of its endurance. One of the gross fallacies
serious minded physical educator to escape a sense of of our thinking has been the uncritical assumption that
professional responsibility for the course being steered. all the desirable effects of systematic hard activity

clearly demonstrable in the trained athlete, are the
Alcon three-quarters of a century ago, the phil- | automatic concomitants of every exercise program. At
osopher and physical educator Miroslav Tyrs, the 1940 conference of the American Legion on “Pre-
wrote a poem in prose called “Our Task, Aim, and paredness and Defense through Health Education, Phy-
Goal."?8 I should like to make a brief reference to it physical Education, and Recreation,” Ancel Keys, director
because it epitomizes the quality of the viewpoints which of the University of Minnesota’s’ Laboratory of Physi-
guided a voluntary physical training program of a truly (Continued on page 118)
70 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION
i

The Civilian Def Physical
e By
Fitness Prog ram WILLIAM L. HUGHES
Chairman, National Advisory Board
OUNTLESS inquiries have come in regarding requesting each of them to name a representative on
C the National Physical Fitness Program con- the Board. The two areas, public health and industry,
ducted by the federal government through the — were already represented by persons assigned to the
Office of Civilian Defense. How did this movement Office of Civilian Defense.
start? What is the program? How is it organized and Early in the fall of 1941, Mrs. Roosevelt was ap-
administered? What is its present status? Who are pointed Assistant Director of Civilian Defense in Charge
the persons associated with the movement? of Voluntary Participation. The Physical Fitness Pro-
In October, 1940, before the national elections, Presi- gram, therefore, came under her general supervision.
dent Roosevelt appointed Mr. John B. Kelly of Phila- | Almost immediately after its establishment, Mr. Kelly
delphia to a position which was designated as National requested that the Advisory Board meet with Mrs.
Director of Physical Training. In the short time be- | Roosevelt in Washington on October 20 and 21. At
fore the elections, Mr. Kelly, without funds or person- _ this meeting Mrs. Roosevelt urged the full cooperation
nel, was able to accomplish very little toward estab- of all individuals and groups, Mr. Kelly outlined his
lishing a program. After the elections, interest waned _ plans, and Mr. Geiges presented a detailed report of
until August, 1941, when Mayor LaGuardia, as Director the proposed program. The Advisory Board made
of Civilian Defense, appointed Mr. Kelly Assistant U. many suggestions regarding objectives, program, or-
S. Director of Civilian Defense in Charge of Physical ganization, and personnel. Its chief function is to sug-
Fitness. Miss Alice Marble was assigned the task of — gest general policies in the conduct of the National
promoting physical fitness among women and girls and _— Physical Fitness Program. This includes assistance in
Miss Mary K. Browne was named as Assistant. the establishment of objectives, program, and organi-
One of Mr. Kelly’s first official acts was the selection _—zation.
of Mr. Ellwood A. Geiges as his Executive Assistant. Recently the College Physica] Education Association
Mr. Geiges, who is a prominent football official, coach, § and the National Collegiate Athletic Association have
and physical educator, was loaned to the Government each been asked to name a representative. The Ad-
for the duration by the Philadelphia Board of Educa- visory Board as now constituted follows:
tion. Mr. R. A. Hill was appointed Director of Public oo,
Relations. Organization Representatives
. 1. American Association for Dr. Anne Schley Duggan,
In September 1941, Mr. Kelly called the writer to Health, Physical Education, Professor of Health and Phy-
Philadelphia to confer with him and Mr. Geiges re- and Recreation physical Education, Texas State
garding the organization, program, and personnel of a College for Women, Denton —
national program of physical fitness. A tentative plan 2. American Legion Mr. Prank McCormick Di-
of organization had already been drawn up. The writer roe ag Cintas ver
sity of Minnesota
was asked to study the plan and to suggest additions 3. College Physical Educa- Dr. Glenn H. Howard, De-
and changes. In accordance with this request, and after tion Association partment of Physical Educa-
consultation with many colleagues, it was suggested, ey The Ohio State Univer-
among other things: (1) that there be established an 4. Industrial Activities and . M r. John DaGrosa, Office
Advisory Board, composed of representatives of national Sports of Civilian Defense, Board of
organizations particularly interested in physical fitness, Education Building, Phila-
and (2) that the program be organized into five Divis- . delphia
ions, i.e., (a) Schools and Colleges, (b) Recreation, 5. National Collegiate Ath- Dr. E. L. Mercer, Dean,
. ; . letic Association Department of Physical Edu-
(c) Industry, (d) Social Agencies, and (e) Public cation, University of Penn-
Health. It was found, however, that such divisions sylvania
were not feasible because the Government had already 6. National Education As- Dr. Charles C. Wilson, Pro-
established regional, state, and local Offices of Civilian sociation fessor of Health and Physica’
Defense and it was also carrying on activities in some Education, Teachers College,
; . Columbia University
of these areas. It was decided, however, to establish 7. National Congress of Howard V. Funk, Princi-
an Advisory Board. ; Parents and Teachers pal, Junior Highs c hool,
. . oo ronxville, New Yor
The Advisory Board.—The writer was invited to 8 National Social Work Dr. William F. Snow,
_ Serve as Chairman of an Advisory Board and was asked Council Room 609, 927 15th Street,
to write the presidents of eight national organizations N.W., Washington, D. C.
| FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 La

9. Public
Health |
; » Dr. Geo
rge B
man Medical aehr, Chai
10. Soci Civilian Def Board, Office of nine
Wein of Recreati D.C. n Defense, Washincton Ine army corps areas
America onal Mr. F n, ach of these or regions f
Union C. W. Mathe appointed a areas a man of the United S
ri missi ounty P wson, Physi as Regional and a wom tates.
. Society of ssion, P. O. B ark =Com- physical Fitness Representati an have bee
Neath, ed Physical, an a Nye "Box 231, Eliz. app physical fitness. it was taken matives tn hare ‘
health Educati physical. and r. Wynt appoi these r grant e 0
Educatio aith and. Physica ually has h rough politi ould be polit;
n, D physical 1 appened i political ch political
12. U. Instructi epartment P . ave been m ‘ e 1S, tha . Cc annels ;
tion S. Office of Educa syivania Harrisburg, Public the eighteen ade through sroper cs the a sintin hat
- Dr. Bes " sons ppointe r cnan ’ . nents
° s an esa . nels, yo
13. Veterar Offs oP ean US assi d all are admirabl re professionally sixteen of
Wars is of Foreign ucation. os signed them. y equipped to y trained per-
Na . Meredith elow is the list perform the task
14. Ch National Satbeom Samuel states included in tof Regional Repr
, , » Vz c esentativ
Board airman Advisory mington “Tayton Street eit ” Edun England—M an area: ntatives and the
, w ’ - i —Mr. .
Dr. William are etts : Mis. State Depart aniel J. Kell
Professo L. Hueh Sort iss Ruth ment of Ed ly, Director
Teachers a Educatio ° panes’ te ans Supervisor of” Boston or Physical
The P Universi ollege, Col . Delaware usetts. r of Physi » Massachus-
e rogram sity. New Y umbia ; Saunders, Hi ¥ New Jer physical Educati
meeting in O Coordinators.— . ork City Kenneth A igh School Tey, and New Y ion,
th ctober s.—At . Ives Comm ork—M
€ appoint , the Advi its Washi III. Ma , 111 Eighth erce, New Y Mr. William
ordinators ment of professionally Board bhai ie umbia—Dr. La Pennsy Bea Vine New York City; Mrs
both th , each with nally trained mended “ducation B uis R. Burne a irginia, and ork City. "
e school a man and ed progra Lillian B. oard of E tt, Director 0 District
school activi ool and co woman assi mco- E 1 B. Davi ducation of Physica of Co
colleges but it b This ma program ne for “aucation. avis Supe or of. moe ee Mariend, Dt
ut it h s feasible i e out . Alabam re, Maryland ducati ; Dr.
school as prov e in th -of- ° Carolin a, Florida, Ge . tion, Board
areas beca ed to be di e school C a, South C , orgia, Louisi rd of
publi use iffcult i s and ornwell, Di arolina , Loutsian oo.
penis, in ine diversity ints out-of- Cotte lina ; A ee in Tennesse Profesor Ol Nor
. stry interests i ollege, T annie B ucation. Uni live
At ’ and amo S in V ’ allahass . Shaw ’ niversit r K ;
present th ng the pri . India ee. , Florid ity of North
on ere private of liana, Ke a Stat
one for the school are two grou of | Physical E Rentucky, Ohio—Dr. D e Teachers
-school . Ss and coll ps of coo di > Palmer on, The Ohi . . Obertuff ;
velop specific progran group eges, and one foe inators : S VI. Illinois Mich Ohio State ne State Univers Director
ine s. Thei r the o. LaSalle ichigan, Wi niversi rsity:; Mi
adapta programs eir functi . out- Di alle Str . isconsin— ity. Miss
to ptable to the faciliti that are suited ction is to de- Director of W eet, Chicago, Ili Mr. Carl Stoc
> correlates existi cilities of their to the needs and ia omen’s Physical "Ede Dr weenolm. 120
of Physical ing progr: respecti an II. A ration. Untveca B
. am . ve field b rkansas 10n, Univ ; ell,
fense. al Fitness th s with that s, and raska, No , Iowa, K niversity of
ense. ohs function Tea the Office ° oe otvision Director of arene 2 ensas, | Minnesota Mis
, ivihan e, Direc ics, Universi a—Mr. Fi souri, Ne-
and m , Or course preparati II. Ari physical Ed _of Minnes McCormick
T ethods ses of stu ration of Dr. H zona, Col ucation, Uni ota; Miss
o date, the foll for various acti dy outlinin 7 Insti arty A. Scott crac, New Me University of Ne Mabel
owin ctivitie g ma itute: Mi , Directo xico, Ok ebraska
s g appointments have b Wask Ss The Moon Physical’ Education, Texa—
Coordi chool e been m ‘ashin , Idaho ey, Universi ion, Th Rice;
Physic nator Dr. H s and Colleges ade : Education, Wy omine Chaves B Ne ersity of Texa “
al Educati . A. Jon m on, Berkel harles Davi vada, Or s.
u » ota ’ 1 oO .: ’ ali ° 1S : ’
Dep ty C ra State Ed es Directo ent of Ph cy Califor avis, Dir egon, Utah
Dr. An oordinator f ucation De r of Health physical Educatio nia; Miss L rector of Physi ,
Etat Seley Due an Girls’ and partment, Albany int it State Representati n, University of Calif Cobb, Doe ,
Deputy exae State College for of Hi men’s Programs— it has been th ntatives.—In fornia, Berkeley. }
August y Coordinator ollege for WwW health and Ph S-— and Ph ° € plan toa . states where ,
Augest Priia®, Director of Phos omen, Demon, Texas So Physiea Education as the Stat Directors of Hea :
physical rograms— , S al Fitne e State D1 of Health
Coordi Recreation— Education, Chi Mr, Some profession ss. Where n Directors of Civil
aera Out-of-School G 1Cago, departme nt. o ally trained per o such officer vl
.F. S. M roups nated , or in th son in th exists.
abeth, N athewso ed. Her e state u ’ . e stat |
Mr. V K ewer. Direct : recreation. Eli A list e ffices nts m -
. . ’ ’ - of Ci + ust be
Mr. John Brown Directo: of Recreation 1Z and of the state . ivilian D made
’ , . Cc a ef
Mr John Da Grow. Office of Recreation Choe Michigan hanges, follows appointments, subject to
, Social an d poivilian Defenes Illinois. | ri " t to additions
. D Consultant M rivate Agencies. . Connecticut—D rst Civilian Defe
r. W. L. Hu ember of T ° sioner. r. Stanley O nse Area
Reai ghes, Chairman hese Groups Maine—C sborn, State H
egional (C Advisor Education, / Harry Edw health Commi
of Civi (Corps A y Board tion, A ward . ommis -
Civilian D rea) R . New H ugusta. Ss, Director P -y
efense has epr esentatt H ampshire— , Physical
as been establish ives An Offic ca Concord Dr. Travis Bu and Health
| shed in e assach rroughs,
each of the Public eat Paul J S State Board of
7 Rhode Ielantd Va House, Bo Jakmauh, Commissi
r Various school ston. imissioner of
superintendents
HEALTH
AND PHYSICAL ED
UCATION

i,
Second Civilian Defense Area —~ New Mexico—L. W. Clark, Department of Education, Sante :
New Jersey—William P. Uhler, Assistant State Director of Fe. :
Physical Education, Trenton Trust Company Building, Trenton. ; Arizona (in part) —Rollah E. Ashton, Education Director :
New York—Dr. Hiram A. Jones, Department of Educa- in Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction, Phoenix.
tion, Albany. oo. |
Delaware—George W. Ayars, Director of Physical Educa- Ninth Civilian Defense Area |
tion for State of Delaware, Dover; Dr. Edwin Cameron, Washington—Dr. Donald Evans, Health Director, Smith |
Executive Secretary of State Board of Health, Dover. Tower, Seattle.
. as Oregon—Dean R. W. Leighton, University of Oregon.
Ot hird Civilian D efense Area Idaho—Dr. E. L. Berry, Director of Public Health.
Pennsylyania—Dr. J. Wynn Fredericks, Chief, Health and Montana—Miss Elizabeth Ireland, Superintendent of Public
Physical Education, Department of Public Instruction, Harris- Instruction, Helena.
burg. Utah—Mrs. Ruth Ward Mumford, Health Education Con-
Maryland—Mr. T. C. Ferguson, Superintendent of Physical sultant, State Department of Health; Miss Bernice Moss, Phy-
Education and Recreation, State Board of Education, Balti- physical Education Director, State Department of Public Instruc-
more. tion, Salt Lake City.
Virginia—Eliot V. Graves, Supervisor of Health and Phy- Nevada—Dr. E. E. Hamer, Carson City.
physical Education, Richmond. Arizona (in part)—Frank R. Williams, Physical Director
District of Columbia— of Arizona, State Health Department, Phoenix. .
Fourth Civilian Defense Area California—Dr. Hal Orion, State Director of Physical Edu-
North Carolina—Charles Spencer, Director of Physical and ca asks. Catechol) —
Health Education in Public Schools, Raleigh; Dr. Carl V.
Reynolds, Secretary, State Board of Health, Raleigh. . cad -Fit lee
South Carolina—Dr. James H. Hayne, Secretary of State Local Directors of Physieal-F me SS. tts hoped: that ues
Health Department, Columbia. a professionally trained person. willbe placed in charge
Georgia—Dr. T. F. Abercrombie, Director of State Depart- of the physical fitness program by each of the Local
ment of Health. . Salt. University of Florida: Mr. Civilian Defense Committees. In cities it may be the
orida— Ur. . Benton salt, niversity oO orida ; r. it irecto . .
J. Hall, State Department of Education. Tallahassee. 4; y , ect . of health and phy lle education oF the
Alabama—Miss Jessie R. Garrison, State Director of Phy- irector of recreation. in smaller communities, it
physical and Health Education, Montgomery. doubtless will be the physical education teacher in the
Tennessee—B. O. Duggan, Commissioner of Education, high school or the athletic coach.
Nashville. wos
Mississippi—Dr. Felix J. Underwood, Director of Physical The Sports Board.—The use of sport celebrities to
and Health Education, Jackson. promote physical fitness throughout the nation was a
Louisiana—Simon McNeeley, Supervisor of Health, Physi- = part of the plan from the beginning. At first there was
al Education, and Safety, State Capital Building, Baton = considerable criticism of this policy on the part of those
BS. Fifth Civilian Defense Area who did not understand its purpose. Gradually, how-
Ohio—Mr. Kenneth C. Ray, Director of Education, Colum- ever, many of the skeptics are beginning to realize that,
bus. with their crowd-appeal and publicity value, nationally
West Virginia—Dr. C. F. McClintic, State Health Com- known athletes can reach the public in a way the pro-
missioner. fessionally trained worker can never hope to 1-
Indiana—Dr. Thurman B. Rice, State Director of Health 0 pe to approx!
and Physical Education, 1098 W. Michigan Street, Indianapolis. a e. . .
Kentucky—Referred to Dr. A. T. McCormack, Commissioner It is the chief function of the Sports Board to act
of Health, 620 S. 3rd Street, Louisville. as a service group for the development of interest in
Sixth Civilian Defense Area . and enthusiasm for the various sports. These experts
INlinois—Dr. Seward C. Staley, University of Illinois. are on call by regional, state, and local groups to assist
Michigan—Dr. Eugene Elliott, State Superintendent of In- in the promotion of their programs. Mr. Grantland
struction, Lansing. , Rice, noted sports writer, has been appointed Chair-
Wisconsin—Robert Nohr, Jr University of Wisconsin. man of the Sports Board. Mr. Jesse Owens, noted
Missouri Seventh Civilian Defense Area Negro athlete, has recently been appointed to pro-
Kansas—Jeff A. Robertson, Secretary, Kansas Council of mote phy physical fitness among the Negroes. Mr. J ohn
Defense, Topeka. , Da Grosa of the Office of Civilian Defense is the Sports
Arkansas—Dr. W. B. Grayson, State Health Department, Coordinator. He has prepared a pamphlet outlining a
tate Rom CH. McCloy. University of I tentative working plan for each national sport repre-
owa—Dr. C. H. McCloy, University of Iowa. . . “4s .
Nebraska—Dr. A. L. Miller, State Health Director, Lincoln. sentative. These outstanding authorities, representing
Minnesota—Frank G. McCormick, University of Minnea- each of the two score or more common American sports,
polis. will serve on the Sports Board. The following list,
North Dakota—Dr. Maysil M. Williams, Department of subject to changes and additions, includes the appoint-
Health, Bismarck. ments to date
South Dakota— °
Wyoming— 1. Archery—H. A. McCune, Ben Pearson, Inc., Pine Bluff,
Etghth Civilian Defense Area Arkansas.
Texas—Dr. D. K. Brace, University of Texas. 2. Badminton—R. Ward Starrett, President, National Bad-
Oklahoma—Mr. Lee K. Anderson, Director of State Ath- minton Association, 8 S. Dearborn Street, Chicago, Illinois.
letics, Kay Building, Oklahoma City. 3. Bag Punching—Albert A. Nino, 7052 Aberdeen Road,
: Colorado—Dr. R. L. Ciure, Secretary and Executive Officer, Upper Darby, Pennsylvania.
Colorado State Board of Health. (Continued on page 106)
FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 73

New Orleans © e e« e La Place d’armes--
: 4 |
, pee E” aaa ent i Ake La p | aza de A rmas-- —
= >. rf ig Let, se bbe os % * ee e |
rt \ hy ase ' a ating a NE oc : Jackson Sq uare
ay t is Way i Sets ; ’ + ghee ! f. Sale ong }
ee "TACT PO Sy ee a ae ae erat”
ayy Les, i A bi ’ Br Ay i as > ice # ge Pi t : By
SPIN AACA, PCat L tl Soe gk EN SE JAMES J. A. FORTIER
Ser ry \ a NES f tie eS * “4 Fula a ; ’ 2, YR A =? City Historian
Rory SA ia" NSE Pa i tN Pee a NS GL New Orleans, Louisiana
ta’ 2 RA
oN \ ai © OR CF Sp as, + ae ar a
Sa A . Qed: syne sy gen
we BS ey © 2 SHOT: ’ he 'v if RO ort Ra e At left, the Versailles Oaks, also called the
im i. d, A Py Ss | os et = Be NGS bs SW “Cathedral of Oaks,” located just below New
> i bie tal) a Se Orleans on the site of the Battle of New
eT NS a rel A aR Tie Orleans in which Andrew Jockson put a de-
te es ee. ae mneeitl. cisive end to the War of 1812, settling forever
a Sarge ee a cain A Sti teat cing? 4 aa the ownership of the Louisiana territory, now
= aE Se a oe te, aes a ~—salll or part of 17 states.
6 a ENS 5 5 ri aoe -"
ee eae ’ pee
— | statue of Andrew Jackson, in full regimentals. It was
. unveiled February 9, 1856. It cost $30,000, and 1s
HE parade ground incorporated with the city plan the work of Clark Mills, a noted sculptor. In Wash-
T eves Bienville’s engineer, Adrien de Pauger, ington, D. C., and in Nashville, Tennessee, are replicas —
formally laid out the city in 1721, was known in ___ of the statue.
French times as the Place d’armes and in the Spanish This is a remarkable bronze. More than ten tons —
as La Plaza de Armas. The grass-grown, unrelieved it weighs. There is unusual life and movement init. —
area was dedicated to park purposes in 1856; through Andrew Jackson has raised his hat in salute, the horse
. the efforts of Micaela, Baroness of Pontalba, it had is rearing, front hoofs pawing the air; and the balance
been renamed Jackson Square in 1851 in honor of is so perfect that no rods or supports are needed to |
the hero of the Battle of New Orleans and this nation’s — support it. The inscription, “The Union Must and
seventh president—The Conservator of The Republic. Shall be Preserved,” on the granite base was cut, in
It is a much nobler memorial to this great man and 1862, by order of General Benjamin F. Butler, the
his mighty deeds than the original Jackson Square on Union commander who occupied the city during the
the site of Fort St. Charles (Esplanade Avenue and war between the states.
the I.evee), where the general reviewed the troops be- It is the most historic part of Louisiana, is Jackson
fore marching against the British at Chalmette. The Square; one of the most historic spots in the Missis-
United States government in 1835 bought that tract sipp! Valley.
and built there a mint which for a time turned out It is the stage on which has been enacted many great
$5,000,000 of coin a month. dramas: a stage built by the three great nations that
Through the society founded by Micaela, walks were have shaped Louisiana’s history, and the Valley's: the
laid, formal parterres were created, and flowers and Pontalba buildings are the side walls—they represent
trees were planted. Succeeding generations changed the United States: the Cathedral dominates the back
the design, but they have added to the floral and other | drop—it represents the French founding because of
embellishments. The Square is a bursting growth of the houses of worship which antedated it on the same
palms, camellias, azaleas, magnolias, the State flower, site; and the Cabildo and Presbytere represent the
oleanders, the City flower, mulberries, oranges, park- constructive Spanish era.
insonias, crape myrtles, bananas, and many other kinds Seven flags have hung above that stage: Bourbon
of vegetation, from sugar cane and bamboo to the Rose France's three golden lilies upon a white field ; Spain's
of Sharon and Cry Baby plants. It is a place of un- golden castles and rampant red lions on red and white
usual charm and beauty. quarterlings, followed by the red and yellow pavilion
The present iron fence was erected in 1851 to re- when the bars of Aragon were adopted in +1785 as the
place the modest iron fence erected by Mayor Roffig- national emblem; Republican France’s tricolor; the
nac in 1820, who also planted three rows of sycamore flag of the United States, fifteen stars and_ fifteen.
trees, removed by the Baroness de Pontalba because stripes, the Lone Star of Louisiana, with thirteen
of their excessive leaf shedding. stripes, blue, white and red, and a red jack containing
The central piece in the Square is the equestrian a five-pointed yellow star, and the stars and bars of
14 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

the Confederacy, which for a year flew side by side, Austrians and Slavonians—a thrifty and peaceable
until the return of the American flag. race. At the corner of St. Ann and Chartres was a

In the center of the Square was the cannon which popular cafe, where, besides all the paraphernalia of
was fired every evening at eight o’clock in the winter a modern bar-room, coffee, chocolate or tea, steaming
and nine o'clock in the summer, constituting the cur- hot, were served on small tables to customers immersed
few, namely, the signal for the slaves to seek their in the mysteries of dominoes. The name was the
homes and the sailors and soldiers their ships and Cafe del Aguila. Across the street was the low-roofed, ”
barracks. Spanish tiled building kept by Benito Duran, sur-

The cannon was removed to Congo Square, now named Valiente, where the purest Mayorca was always
Beauregard Square, on Rampart Street and Orleans to be had. There were also, here and there among
Street in 1850, and this curfew practice was continued — these houses, now called the Pontalba Buildings, the
until 1862 when ordered stopped by the rules of the — establishment of an ingenious watchmaker, named
Union Army of Occupation and the fire bell took its | Labarre, who manufactured a one-year running’ clock
place and continued to toll at eight o’clock in the win- — for the use of the Cathedral tower; a hardware store,
ter and nine o’clock in the summer until the early a restaurant, a gunsmith’s store, and a barber shop;
nineteen hundreds, which caused the expression among __ but fruit seemed to be the staple commodity in that
the people, ‘“‘beat the bell”; meaning, reaching home quarter. Hand tablets of rouge for ladies were on
before the curfew. sale by Mme. Andre.

Its walks afforded recreation to the cosmopolitan Along the iron railings, on the opposite side, were
types by which New Orleans has been developed. The — to be seen booths for the sale of oranges, bananas, ice
rich and the poor, the aristocrat and the commoner, cream, peanuts, ginger beer (biere douce), cooled in
the inhabitants of the Pontalba Buildings and the large tubs, and the inevitable estomac mulatre (ginger
Vieux Carre promenaded there, and many a child cake), as highly prized by the urchins of that gener-
later to reach great prominence was pushed in a baby ation as they are at present. Lining the river, small
carriage or was watched at play or looking at the huts were erected along the water front for the sale

_ marionettes of the Puppet Show and listening to the (Continued on page 112)
playing of the Hurdy Gurdy by the “gardienne” or
mammy with “tignon’” or headdress, as well as the Royal Street, one of the main streets in the Vieux Carre of
bullies, rowdies, and roustabouts, flatboatmen, plotters, New Orleans.
_ and filibusters in connection with aid to Texas in her «!)\ LUD yy
Revolution, to Cuba under Lopez, and the South ay - HOPS Vion
American countries in their efforts of revolt under & \\ SOON COBEN
| Walker. ¥ OBE
: From its seats have been seen for nearly two and \ VR
a quarter centuries, pirogues, skiffs, flatboats, keel- 4 2
. boats, side-wheelers and back-wheelers, luggers, sail-
_ boats, steamships, and vessels of all kinds leaving 6
their mooring places in front of the Square in order .
' to ply the seven seas carrying the cargoes of the Mis- .' | Se
 sissippi Valley to the nations of the world—from which __ .) mf
the Crescent City derived the appellation, “The Port *s . | cae
of the Mississippi Valley.” e/ Sl Ee

On the historic streets surrounding it, the trade of al a >. ee

an ever growing city has hustled by its gates which & ps. “8 ii AOF ADP AE Pic
have seen carriages of old, mule- .and horse-drawn | = Pe re nee 8
, 7 3 oe). ee ee emme
vehicles, and street cars, electric cars, buses, and the "a i gh See : :
automobile carry trade to the old French Market and abo! be a ae ti : ee
the marts of the world. en ~ | eo ari R
| In the old days the facade of the square—that to- oe | ai aa
ward the river—was perfectly open, there being no : | , “ - | |
| railroads, with their unsightly freight depots, in those : ! Bost | ae Ff . |
times to obstruct the view or breezes from the Missis- : een iS 4 o |
_ sippi. Each of the lateral streets, St. Peter on the [james =S mw |e we Psy |
_ upper and St. Ann on the lower sides, was covered = @ | L Sab =. ids :
| by a block of buildings, built of bricks between posts, p [ ae hee Of diss eke
briquetees entre poteaux, uniform in size and con- '{ cs ele - ee ;
| struction, two stories in height, with small projectin be BF 7 [gol eH Pieri
| Stuction, two stories in height, projecting © eR ROW RL
| conies. These buildings were used as stores, the er ty ( Ail Ory ALY
| families of the occupants usually living upstairs. They ht PY 4 MF ta” "ss : Ly} 4
were in a great measure used for the sale of tropical * Ay *, rf y A xf d0b.30 , 4 eo ) |
fruits, the trade being mostly controlled by hardy 4's Le 6 Ay} i Ws a0 3 J Sere ee
FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 75

A Project Study of Mental Hygi
- §N ORDER that there should Members of the Project Committee extended beyond student coun-
pe no misunderstanding as to IRIS BOULTON seling into the areas ot : changes
purpose oO this project, New Trier Township High School in student programs ; arrange-
it should be said, first of all, Winnetka, Illinois ments for health examinations
that its purpose was not to deter- and medical treatment; referral
mine what the mental hygiene FAY CUSAK of students to proper authori-
problems of adolescents are, nor Wells High School, Chicago ties; consultations with parents,
was it to add to the research, ©) AnYS GOGLE guidance experts, and the school
in this area, which has been and Ook Park and River Forest Township medical staff; departmental staff
constantly is being carried on High School, Oak Park, Illinois meetings regarding particular
by competent experts in the cases ; and investigation of school
fields of guidance and adoles- WILLIAM HAPP oe records.
cent psychology. Rather, the pur- New Trier Township High School In conclusion, the project sug-
pose was to demonstrate that GLENN HOLMES gests some obvious reasons why
health and physical education Oak Park and River Forest Township we, as individual teachers of
teachers, even though they are High School health and physical education,
not mental hylene exer 0, ELIZABETH MAYBURY should develop, fo erat
J ; aes Austin High School, Chicago egree this guidance porn 0
_. jtheir. students -as individuals «and .. view, including, as it does, |
as “whole” individuals with ALICE MILLER , knowledge and application of the
interrelated physical and -emo- Tuberculosis Association of Chicago and principles of mental hygiene. —
tional problems, play a significant Cook County First, there is concrete evidence .
part.in the detection of these 4 DPD. PATTERSON that understanding of and guid |
emotional problems, helping Evanston Township High School ance concerning the emotional :
with the all-round adjustment of Evanston, Illinois problems of such students as the
their students, and take an im- PR. PAVLINEK chronic trouble-maker, the “‘cut-  -
portant part in the school guid- J. Sterling Morton High School ter,” the extreme individualist,
ance program as a whole. Cicero, Illinois the persistently reluctant partic-
The results of _ the project MERYL RUSSEL ipant, etc., not only facilitate the
would seem to indicate that its J. Sterling Morton High School teaching process generally, but
purpose was not ill-founded. are essential to the accomplish-
Certainly the 100 problems sub- MARGARET LEONARD, Chairman ment of desired ends with the
: mitted by the members of the J. Sterling Morton High School . group. Again, there is proof of
committee are a manifestation the therapeutic value of physical
of the ability of teachers in this field to detect evidences education activities, as demonstrated when certain
of emotional and social unadjustment in their students. _ activities were intentionally employed as part of the
And furthermore, in the follow-up procedures in- adjustment procedure in various cases. Certainly, in
stigated or effected by these teachers, there appears = achieving recognition in the academic world, far more
also to be indication that health and physical education = convincing than generalizations about our contribu-
teachers can safely give guidance regarding the every- tions to mental health would be more widespread mant-
day, minor emotional problems of adolescents, pro- — festation, on the part of health and physical educators,
vided they recognize their limitations and do not “rush —of_ alertness to emotional problems, and more wide-
in where experts fear to tread.” spread proof in specific cases of the adjustment value
The follow-up concerning these problems was varied of our activities. In the third place, in the number
and extensive, ranging from one or two contacts with and variety of problems presented appears the implica-
a case to a series of contacts, in some instances cover- ; . .
. . tion that the health and physical education program
ing a period of three or four years where teachers
had been working with such problems previous to the affords more opportunities for the detection of emo-
project. Included in the committee reports of follow- tional and social unadjustment than does the average
up were individual conferences with students about classroom situation. From the humanitarian stand-
such things as: health conditions, improvement of per- Point, then, it should follow that with increased Oppor-
sonal appearance, conversational ability, relationship | tunity comes an increased sense of responsibility.
with the same and opposite sex, family and teacher- Following 1s a representative selection of the prob-
pupil relations. These guidance procedures, however. lems from 100 cases reported by the project group.
76 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION
, ,

|

J

| Problems of Adolescent Girls 14. Emotional conflict due to 14. In a health examination,
a father’s refusal to allow the when the student gave “worry”
| Problem How Problem Came to the girl to associate with boys, as the cause of nail-biting.

| Teacher's Attention involving a “broken home”

1. Excessive desire for at- 1. In a physical education situation and the girl’s fears

tention. class, where student was a as to the abnormality of her .
leader of a small group of interest in boys.
persistent “trouble makers” ; 15. “Defeatist attitude,’’ © 15. In a health conference.
and by the frequent writing arising from a congenital de- ;
of obscene notes, left, inten- formity of one arm.
tionally, where they would be 16. Repeated discourtesy. 16. Through a rude remark
. found. ; to the physical education
, 2. Strongly introvertive 2, Through student’s appar- teacher which caused deroga-
| tendencies in a highly intelli- ent day-dreaming in class to tory remarks by other stu-
gent girl. such an extent that her par- dents regarding the girl. |
havtoned m activities was 17. Abnormal feeling of 17. Through the student’s
: 3. Failure to accept a fem- 3. Through the girl’s af- general inferiority. rating herself far below aver-
' mine role and to obtain nor- fectation of masculine man- age on a Personality scale, ,
_ mal social development; also nerisms and type of dress, used in a healt educatio 0
' poor academic work. and her obvious attempts at class, and in a Conference with
: physical contacts with more cr as a member ort . . ass.
feminine girls. 18. Self-consciousness about 18. In a health examination
4. An attitude of perfection- 4. Through the girl’s con- acne, causing a tendency to and a follow-up conference.
| ism, and overemphasis on the stant wor ry and inquiries withdraw from association
| importance of high grades in about her physical education with others.
an exceptionally brilliant grades, and demands for the 19. Emotional conflict, in- 19. In a conference on bud-
_ freshman. teacher’s attention and help in volving some loss of regard geting time which is part of
class. for parents, due to their in- the regular procedure in a
: 5. Emotional insecurity due 5. In a regular individual sistence upon the girl’s pre- health c'ass.
_ to constant strife between the interview held with all mem- paring for a vocation contrary
parents. bers of a health class. to her interests; nervous ten-
, 6. Nervousness and tension 6. In a health examination; sion increased by the student’s
' resulting from the attempt to findings of appearance of fa- attempt to keep up her school
| maintain a high level of schol- _tigue, loss of weight, insomnia, work while taking extra work, |
| arship and carry on a heavy and nail-biting. after school hours, in accord-
| Program of activities. ance with her parents’ wishes.
| 47. Concern over extreme 7. In a voluntary conference 20. Use of temper tantrums, 20. Through the student’s
_ difidence with boys and fail- with the instructor of a health at home, to gain desired ends. statement of this habit in a
! ure to have dates. class, following a class dis- health class following a dis-
cussion of boy-girl relations. cussion on getting along with
8. Compensation for a feel- 8. Through association with - others. ,
' ing of inferiori an over- thes nt i - eqs . ;
. ageressive "bchevion unpleas- ship Class mm & student Jeader i. Inability of a shy girl 21. In a regular health con-
ant to other students. to recite in classes—particu- ference.
; 9. Self-consciousness about 9. Through student’s refusal larly in coeducational classes.
obesity. to dress in a gymnasium out- 22. Concern about “pet- 22. In anonymous state-
fit for her physical education ting”—the extent to which it ments of senior girls in a
class. should be practiced, the ques- _ health class as to their prob-

10. Lack of companionship 10. In an individual confer- tion as to necessity-of petting lems; majority were con-
with parents and of social ence with student as a mem- to be popular, etc. cerned with boy-girl relations.
contacts with those of her ber of a health class.
own age (a child of elderly " Problems of Adolescent Boys

. parents).

ll. Exaggerated concern 11. Through the teacher's Problem How Problem Came to the
about personal appearance, investigation of the excuses, } Teacher's Attention
causing a habit of fallacious involving a check on the girl’s 1. Bashfulness with girls 1. Through the boy’s_ re-
excuses from swimming -to physical health. because of obesity. peated attempts to avoid
conceal the true cause—the ef- choosing a partner in a co-
fect on her hair-dress, also educational social dancing
resulting in two successive class.

“failures.” 2. Craving for adventure 2. In the football coach’s in-
12 Despondency and dis- 12, In a conference, between and excitement involving petty vestigation as to why the boy
like of school due to failure _ the girl and the health coun- thefts, running away from suddenly stopped coming to
to make friends upon trans- selor, concerning her frequent home, several minor automo- football practice.
ferring, in the junior year, absences apparently due to bile accidents.
rem a small school to a large physical ill health. . 3. Extreme ego - centricity, 3. Through contact with the
| 13. Social unadjustment 13. In a voluntary confer- poor sportsmanship, and an boy on the football and bas-
| with both boys and girls, at- ence with the teacher about uncontrollable temper. . ketball teams. yes
| tempts to get attention by tell- smoking. 4. Difficulty in social ad- 4. Because of the boy’s fail-
| ing sensational and highly im- justment due to acne. ure to ask girls to dance in:
probable stories, neurotic a social dancing class.
tendency as to health. . (Continucd on page 117)
FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 17

: ing C ity C ti
By | . . we .
tion. Various civic leaders were asked to show their
HELEN SCHWARTZ interest by pouring tea.
Hollywood High School 4. Gaining and maintaining interest of parents.
Hollywood, California Parents were asked, through their children, to attend
the tea and to talk over problems with the teachers and
administrators.
VER a period of years it has been an observa- 5. Gaining cooperation between school and parents.
, © tion that there is a definite gap or weakness be- Teachers were invited with the idea of having them
tween the stated objectives of the school pro- = ‘“‘sell’’ the school program to the parents.

, gram and proof to the community that it is really being 6. Gaining and maintaining interest of teachers. The —
accomplished. The stated function of the secondary plan was outlined to all teachers. Teachers asked to
school in America is to give each individual as wide an _—- volunteer their services.on committees planning the
appreciation of the meaning of his life as his native | event. Others were asked to attend and by their
capacity will permit, guiding him in the learning of — presence help to make things run smoothly.
skills and the acquiring of those attitudes and habits 7. Using some of the educational philosophy which |
of action which show understanding of democratic 1s the basis for our policies and practices such as:
living. a) We should discover pupils’ special aptitudes and —

There is great need for cooperation between the abilities and guide them into kinds of work in which |
home and the school in the matter of promoting the — they will be most useful.
school program because people pay taxes and have b) We should give training for leadership—we must
the right to know what is going on in the schools. know qualities of good leadership to be good followers.
There must be education of the misinformed as to the c) We should recognize individual differences and
value of the school program; the schools need adequate attempt to adjust pupils to their own levels of ability.
financial aid; the teaching staff must be protected from As many students were used on committees and as
unfair criticisms and misjudgments; the way must hostesses as possible and as ability and leadership |
be paved at home for new policies, organizations, de- | would indicate.
velopments, and methods. 8. Using some of the psychological bases for our |
Several of the faculty members of the high school policies and practices: |
* felt that some method should be utilized to improve a) Child behavior increases in socialization as he
the cooperation of the community with the school. The progresses through school.
principal made known that any ideas to further com- b) The process of learning becomes less a matter of
munity cooperation would be appreciated. The idea of | routine and of repetition as the child progresses and |
presenting a Mother-Daughter Tea, to include all girls | more a thing of consciousness.
in school, together with a parent or relative, was sug- c) The teacher is the key to the situation of how to
gested. This idea met with the approval of the prin- | guide children into social behavior—she must be able
cipal. , to obtain rapport with youth.
All committee work on the part of students and
Goals and Possible Procedures teachers was voluntary. Students and teachers worked
As a result of a conference it was agreed to select together to make a pleasant occasion for parents.
the following goals to be reached with the possible ;
procedures to be utilized. The procedures are grouped Organization Necessary
under the objective which they serve. The following committees were appointed: Chair-
1. Obtaining support of the various community = man, Food and Service, Flowers and Decoration, Invi-
agencies such as the Y. W. C. A., Women’s Club, Busi- tations, Music, Cleanup, Publicity, Arrangements,

, ness Women’s Club, Alumni Association. People in Serving, Hostesses. Their responsibilities are obvious.
positions of importance in the various community agen- One member of the faculty and one student were placed
‘cles were called on the telephone. The plan was out- at the head of each committee. As many more students
lined to them. Their cooperation was sought in the — could be placed on a group as were needed.
matter of support of the school program and pushing The following steps were used by the chairmen to
the tea. spread the work over a period of time. Committee ac-

2. Interesting the local paper in the matter of cooper- —s tion’ was achieved through suggestion and by close
ation. The society editor was asked to help by running interaction between the committees. :
an account of the planned affair. She was also sent an Step 1.—The chairmen of Food and Service, Invita- _
invitation. tions, Publicity, and Arrangements met to decide on a

3. Interesting civic leaders in the matter of coopera- (Continucd on page 110)

78 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

UR selectees are healthier ; a great many men who have been rejected for
ee : general military service would, by German standards, be accepted for limited
i) service (our examination standards are higher) ; only 50 per cent are re-
| Piub * jected ; the general health trend is upward; morbidity and mortality rates are lower
<P Lt De than for 1917-1918. If these statements are true the men who have been accepted
= : for service in our armed forces are “physically fit’ for whatever the emergency
¥ x might be—or are they?
Shirer in his Berlin Diary compares the British and the German soldiers. He
‘ > describes the British as hollow-chested, skinny, and round-shouldered—the prod-
y ~ ucts of years of office work. The Germans are described as clean-cut physical-
pt - Something Old Has Been
a ' - ia —
Added , nn
- . ry 7. .
IRGE T. STAFFORD a | .
sor of Physical Education cally, healthy-looking as lions, and with be fe\ 5 Oa
rsity of Illinois well-developed chests—the products of i ie 4, Ee 4
years of training in the open air and nf nae Mi mabe
e sunshine. How would he describe our selectees ? St! Me: ar
For many years this nation has enjoyed a higher standard of living pe Ms Sets
any other nation. We lead the world in conveniences and labor-saving . Oe my
es. All of this has been very pleasant. But, these products of the ae +3 CT Pas
ine age have caused a biological softening which does not fit in with kee “PrP
icture of a nation preparing to defend itself against ruthless aggressors. ae an we Re = 135
Let us remove our rose-colored glasses and face the facts. The people panna EA" = eg
Is country, outside of our athletic group, lack the essential qualities AM Lin 3" Bae ae
ibustness, courage, endurance, physical and emotional stamina, and a bt ee eo Shears
eneral ability to use their bodies skillfully. (Continued on page 115) ee if) eis wr ist) *.
¢ q we wt : “ye t g.5.* aD 71 |
47a V\7E T .
The “Trainasium,” now in use for training the armed forces. oo ey Re Ot eds Ue]
. eet i. wee ' — can ’ 7
: : YY lee! EPS aa > 2 = — . yy
Lo Sts -weaeceee heen ee
—. A ‘ae p de Te eo a — <a > =
< SI in SE ee ey) ee a Wl de oe, lr
AP St SE sa, a ee TN
See = obs Sed + o> A Oy fa | eee 3 - | 6
“47 B Seticadcle Ba Niet wie: gh |S
pp +t Sees St de nats ee Sw 5 ee ae
eee OR UERE imi-< | ar ica
= TL eri TSR , ei\t t a, see
= T “TTF Sea 1 f ‘ <R t on . eis iat (7 FP ey Sd .
— j b Pf. he . 4 or . ‘ -. > oe ~, ’
maadel ase = VRC ae A” agg Fle
meee EE 3 Sr SMD ee |
—— {Ire r . A ry, : | # iy $ Ta. 2. ; a) . = rT i = we.
asatl tty Dae eae “1 Wp ean 221i py:
| Ree oh 5 FE bed A us es Ee ee
CTT teas glee eine! Ae ate Pl ee
eer) Tes a CBP uaa a
. aan oa S. y Sh y - ‘ . . ‘
ROR Oak > aN =2
ANS T 19:| Se VPA > °\ 1 RES | obs bas
Buscerr ee La ea ee aa , fo . hk eo wh < Meee el
io “Ty = . “. ye eel . os S DS os ? ~s th tt . «< U 7 ~~ -
ao “ We 5* og . ane os ll _ ' ' : 4 ~—*4.*
"HERG EE cet ee) Ree eee fad...
‘Sa =— > ba | — a . E dns ap, > + ~ <
Ree Pe epee Ry SG Ty Ra te ea a 3 1 SL OB SRE, ot ce
oe eT ee oad ma Doct data nnanoneeeearena te es en ee ee DUAN ye
ARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 79

dl
By
MARGARET MANTLE STOOKEY
& as oe : Director of Physical Education
a PS my Lindenwood College ;
al ts |
Ae } with strands of color. The custom of wearing the servelleta folded |
eee carelessly on the head is easily reproduced with squares of striped and —
eS plaid prints and is most strikingly typical. ,
ite ‘eo .. 4 The. construction of the garb of Solola and San Antonio Palopo is
LY even more elementary, as the red candy-stripe and the black and white |
; Fi, ae. checked materials may be obtained in any department store. It requires |
rs 7 Ree 1 a little more thought and effort, however, to make the courtly suit of
4 € . oe . .
; a >- the man from Chuichicastenango. A seamstress can duplicate the pattern
if i a with black cambric, and, by using a little patience and precision, the
f; ae intricate patterns of brilliant embroidery may be cut from heavy crepe-
i, Se : paper and pasted on. The large black “ears” on the trousers are
Dy 2 J ee, 22 stiffened with cardboard before the decoration 1s added. These, with |
Bs em RE Re a square of red for the tzu, complete the outfit so that the small brown
Yi FR era é boy from the highlands steps out on the stage complete in every detail.
a oy ale Guatemala is without doubt the most affluent country in the Americas
) Po pn aa aes for the study of pre-Columbian costume design. In most of the coun-
, 2” eos tries in Europe one finds the elaborately decorated peasant costumes
atl _ oe of only on Sundays and at fiestas. In Guatemala, however, every street
= ES So” ae corner i the modern capital, every mountain road, every village in
ae Pe Oe Sas the far-off highlands is ablaze every day with the picturesque, colorful |
o; ae RR garb of the descendants of the Mayan and Quiche Indians. Hundreds ,
— _ ) of years before Columbus caught glimpses of Mayan feathered costumes |
in the Caribbean, these people produced hand-woven, hand-dyed, hand- |
embroidered costumes of a barbaric beauty and splendor. These Indians |
so variously derived and blended have evolved many strange customs |
HE Indian dress from Guatemala = and _a wealth of daring artistic designs worthy of the serious concen-
T described here offers a very work- tration of any costume enthusiast. Especially in the highlands every
able subject for dance dramas, Indian of today, both men and women, appears dressed as for an opera,
fiestas, pageants, and parades. No florid with color. Some costumes at the markets are faded and worn.
special skill is necessary to create the but the fading seems only to have softened and grayed the colors so
costumes as the basic pattern is the that they form a blended, harmonious design, rhythmical and novel.
same in every village. Two lengths Each village has a different costume design, woven on small prini-
of navy-blue cambric or a subdued per- tive looms according to ancient patterns. All the women wear a blouse
cale print will form the skirt. Sew up or waist called a huipil and a five-yard wrap-a-round skirt. a refajo.
both sides, step into the tube effect, Some few use an eight-yard pleated skirt which is a result of the six-
twist the extra fullness at the top to teenth-century Spanish influence. The latter, by the way, is a very
one side, tuck it in the belt, and the flattering type for when the wearer sails along with a wide basket on
skirt ts finished! The blouse takes two _ her head, as one writer puts it,’ “she appears to be running on wheels.”
yards of cambric, folded and slit in Each village has its own color pattern with distinctive accessories so |
the center for the head. It is a simple that in a short time one can learn to identify at least ten or twelve
matter then to decorate this huzpil with villages. Since all the huipils are fundamentally a quadrangle of cloth. |
distorted crepe-paper chickens and folded and whipped up the sides with a space left for the arms and
birds for Palin or with many colored a hole for the head, the endless variation of design, color, and style |
stripes, diamonds, and moons for San worked out by the Indians 1s most interesting. The costumes also vary
Antonio Aguas Caliente, Santiago according to the altitude and climate. The Mayas in the highlands
dltitlqn, or Chichicastenango. The — wear warm woolens in somber shades of brown, black, and purple to
heavy black braids worn in coronet —= match the iron-stained walls of the canyons, the black sheep roaming
fashion on the head are concocted from the hills, and the velvet violet of the mountains. In the hot coastal
loose rolls of black cheese-cloth wound regions, however, the costumes are thin, net-like weaves with trans-
80 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

parent designs in flaming patterns to match the scream- hack-pleats, suggest a Schaptarelli creation. .\  scar-
ing reds of the flowers and birds. let, four-yard, fringed sash 1s wound around below
The first morning in Guatemala City I had only to the top of the skirt, leaving a sort of rose-petal, pleated
step to the corner of the Palace hotel to see.a perfect hnish at the top. The women twist cochineal, rose,
parade of unusual sights—rickety cart-loads of brush- and azure strands in their glossy, black hair and wind
wood drawn by spotted oxen, scores of policemen all it about the head hke a crown. The older women,
on bicycles, and many gaily dressed Indian women go- carrying tall baskets of sapotes, jacotes, and grana-
ing to market. Soon one saw me raise my camera dillas on their heads, appeared more dignified. [ach
and her hand shot up and her eyes widened. Had my hada white servelleta, woven with faint blue and red
‘shutter clicked a minute later I would never have chickens, thrown over the basket. At times one end
gotten the picture. Most all Indians are averse to would slip down to the shoulders and give the wearer
having their pictures taken. Their fears of witchery the appearance of an [¢mpress wearing a coronation ;
cause them to cover their faces with their hands, duck headdress.
behind a serveletta, or scramble up and run away. Although Santa Maria de Jesus was a squalid, im-
They believe that horrible sorcery can be worked with — poverished looking village, the women’s costumes were
a picture, while some believe that the kodak is a sort strikingly rich, with harmonious designs of red, blues,
of occult machine which has the ability to see right |= and browns. The square-necked huipils, beautifully
through their naked bodies. One has to shoot many woven in toniato red, turquoise, nile green, yellow, blue,
times and go hunting as if for quail in order to snap — and cerise, had a solid conventional design about four
the timid, easily frightened Indians. inches wide across the shoulders, and the wide band
In the highlands we found the road a perfect pageant = extending down the front was a maze of stripes, dia-
of figures and costumes (which gradually changed as monds, and sunbursts, alternating with the queer chick-
we neared another village). The rather short white ens, birds, and doll-figures peculiar to all of Guatemala.
huipils of the women, showing a narrow expanse of |= This harmony in warm, reddish mulberry was very
brown, bare stomach, and the long, blue, wrap-around pleasing but was totally different from the solid tapestry
skirts pleated in the back constitute a style peculiar to — effect in San Antonio Aguas Caliente. The skirt was
Palin, one of the most unique in Guatemala. The a deep, royal blue with small pin stripes, feather-
huipils are of a rather slimpsy, open weave covered stitched down one side and also several inches below
with faint figures of distorted men, rabbits, and horses the waist. The shawl was beautifully embroidered
done in lavender, red, blue, and yellow. The long — with queer figures—Siamese chickens, kangaroos with
electric-blue, horizontally striped cortes with the wide — horns, chickens with two tails and fins in red, green,
The man in the left photo is shown wearing the odd clothes of the men of Solola with the “pyjama panties” and the gay nine-
ties “sailor.’’ The girl in the center might have been Hollywood trained to carry her burden as she does with such upright
posture. Indian women walk with an undulating, gliding gait over the rough pavements. The women at the right are from
Palin, where the white huipils are worn short to show a little of the brown stomach. The blue skirts, over which a red sash
is worn, are pleated in the back.
a | Gh. -s ~
ia : +). pees
| -_ . 4 — Fe | cA "oS GG 1 FB al
¢ © Sie tad }
: 7 i 3
! —— ) Cg ;
| = atc, i — ,
! FE fs " . 8 = dL =
| wae ay > - » es ,
- —e
— "3 - fp Forges - |
| i as ee 5 a ; oe «= ‘ =<
Br Bie Se : : a
Ss Ae: ae a A a | | —"
, Titty : y : < m ‘ Ae heer..
res = ~~ Dae e ' Se sl
So, | ay arn 4
eX - : .
FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 81

. 7 Pa. R ets Ds
: | AF fe,
} | es a iii
* yy eos eis
a. "Died xe BS sire
~ jae Wr ae Fo
ee 8 oo ee ek le “4
be ‘YY - oO At aan i .

a Tg oe ee “ ee a Z ¥ , seis
The girl at the left, carrying water from the fountain down a steep hill, is from San Antonio Palopo. Her huipil is of red
and white stripes, the sash scarlet, and the skirt indigo blue. In the center, the girls are going to market in Guatemala City.
Notice the small cloth pads on which the basket is balanced. The girl from Palin, shown at the right, is a good looking
Quiche type wearing the becoming head roll and an antique coin necklace. |
purple, and cerise on a red and black plat. mothe tropical regions. This may be where the

As we neared Zaragosa we noticed that the women's campuses of today got the idea of letting “shirt-tails”
striped huipils were not belted inside the skirt but were come out into polite society. The women in Zaragoza |
hanging loose in front and back. This is customary ran from our car so fast that the pictures I attempted
in some villages for fiestas and is also more common to take were blurred streaks of stripes and plaids. |

At Patsun the costume was a medley of stripes:

In the market place at Chichicastenango. This shows a good huipils of bunting stripe, red and white, the neck fin-

back view of the elaborate costume worn by the men, with ished with small pieces of ribbon appliqued on witha
its embroidery and fringe. The straw hat and ‘tzut” in the = fa embroidery stitches: skirts of violent plaids in |
foreground belong to a man from Solola. : “ . . :
Prussian blue and white; servelletas of tent stripe, red
| and white, carelessly but securely crowning the lustrous ,

a _ black hair.

pertite _ After a short ride across the deep blue waters ol

RE PERO get cree 2 — Lake Atitlan we came to a queer village, San .lntonio

fis Se can Palopo, which clung to the sides of a very steep cliff.

a = =—é As we stumbled up the steep, zigzag ramp, every step
is i brought into view a picturesque thatched hut with —

| J “— black haired children peering around the corners. At

| | CS Py oS | the very top in front of the milk-white church and

| Pen, Pe. © near the fountain we got a good view of the women’s

Pater fe . ae i : | 3 costumes. They had less decoration than some but

f ee « ee FD, — Be V4 = ~ were very attractive against the sky and the rugged
og ee as fe, oe ae, Th landscape. The center of the huipil of a fuchine red
im a e Pe iit m4 . a contrasted with the arm covering in red and white

are, "> © stripe. A very faint spot of embroidery appeared as
ceaieiuea | AN 4 Se CF Lee” ee a carelessly arranged series of dots and splashes. The
Be oa a ce fest skirts of dead, cobalt blue had no pin stripes and no

ii ‘<- . jibe / i randa closing. The sash of red was rather loosely
pe Ms Mi , F o. woven with a few white pin stripes. The hair ribbon
<n ae ae =_— ¢ was most unpretentious, narrow and red with a very

4. ae ersten i y we few colors on the ends. The women in this village

aes ; ype.” ey = Ei could not use the little jog trot conmmon to most Indian

|) Sauer « pede women, due to the steepness of the slope. Their gait

ot ENA a ; : = was slowed down to a more poised, dignified march

uz. oN eg ai as if they were in a parade or a wedding procession.

‘e AS pes Phe grace and ease with which they descended a steep

\ 6» {i , | cobblestone slope with a jar of water on their heads
 -?) ‘Sy , es 2 was a beautiful sight.

nj ae x P| (Continued on page 116) )

) 82 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Sanitary Requi ts for School
l_unches and vegetables may be used only after being boiled
from 3 to 5 minutes after removing from the can.
. “Leftovers” are never to be carried over to the next
A statement Issued by the Joint Com day. All food prepared must be eaten, sent home
mittee on Health Problems in. Education with the children, or put in the garbage the same day
it is prepared. .
; Day-old products are not to be used if there is any
HE schoo! me h vende extreme ee ingredient which is capable of spoilage or fermentation.
Peal he ith m d © ion PS rn bei ' the anc P he This precaution is particularly needed with products
vup-aiaanpeaana sae tiae aire eees ennui containing cream fillings, meringues, or non-acid dress-
Joint Committee on Health Problems in Education 1 , . hipped
: . , : gs or sauces, such as mayonnaise, whipped cream,
calls attention to certain protective sanitary measures ad French dressj
knowing that the carrying out of these measures will YG OK ee .
hel .. d sick y 1G f taminated food 5. The housekeeping of the lunchroom and the kit-
1e'P avoid sickness Fesulling: trom contamina chen must be above criticism. Particular attention

The educational aspects of school lunches, as well as should be given to the exclusion of flies, rats, mice
ne een ents On acca cnet have irae doce. roaches, and other vermin. Containers which are ver-
‘ene aa Join Ome e NEPORN, nae ca min-proof must be provided when it is impossible to
tion (1941 edition) to which the reader is referred. ar

, . . eradicate thesé nuisances.
The index of this report furnishes many references to 6. The personnel and equipment must be under the
the educational value of the school lunch. daily supervision of some responsible person trained
to for such work—school physician or school nurse, prin-
For the purpose ol ene partner we make the cipal or home economics teacher — who will have
following adaitona 4 recommendations concerning = authority to order the abatement of a condition which
lunchroom personne ‘ ee h b may be dangerous. This responsible person shall de-

1. All persons employed in the lunchroom must be cide whether a lunchroom worker is or is not fit to
scrupulously clean in person and attire. They should york on any given day. He shall take into considera-
be required to submit to health examinations or proce- tion the following points and such others as seem perti-
dures which the health or school authorities may see nent or necessary to insure safety to the persons eat-
ne fo require dk; , t be cl das ing the school lunch:

i re unehroom an sche must be ander .. a) Is the individual clean in person and clothing?
well equipped as it 1s possible to expect under the b) Is there suspicion that the worker is suffering
existing circumstances m the particular school, bear- from some communicable disease? If so, he should be
ing in mind me fact that many schoo's winch hool examined by a physician or health officer who, in
poorly Frome eh are du very , specia osc 4 scnoo turn, should inform the administrative head of the

| mches rom the san point o aa and education. school regarding the possible transmission of the
are lere must De present ne scl constant use mn disease. He should not be permitted to return to work
| lo owing equipment: a stove of such capacity as wi after sickness or absence of undetermined cause until
| furnish abundant heat for cooking and for heating large —s_ by a physician
amounts of water; a place to wash dishes where they c) Is there any infectious disease, such as scarlet
may be scalded with water over 170° F. and allowed to fever. in the home of the worker?
| dry; a supply of dishes and utensils sufficient to permit d) Is there any skin disease or discharging wound?
| good practice in the handling of food; a clean, tight
- cupboard for the storage of dishes and utensils used
in cooking ; a supply of kitchen linen or its paper subs TBE close cooperation of lunchroom directors, prin-
stitute great enough to permit sanitary handling of the wae anes noo! physicians oF health officers 's i
food; and an icebox or refrigerator, if such.is at all qua & P 2 DE SANE. A NESE I
possible dividuals working together can see that sanitary pre-

4. Food low in price is permissible, but it must not vieease. h re in Ken and thus prevent the spread of

be fermented, decomposed, frostbitten, unclean, or of isease througn to0ds. “s
|  Unsanitary quality. —

| Milk should be pasteurized. If unpasteurized, it Re rte db

should be boiled on the premises. If powdered milk pe y

| - IS used, it must be mixed with sate water within an W. W. BAUER, M. D.

| hour or two of the time it is to be used. Secretary of the Joint Committee on Health Problems

: Home-canned fruits are safe, but home-canned meats N. E. A. and A.M. A.

|

_ - FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 Ri
|

' .

| short, the general importance of abundant health to the
The Journal of " individual’s own success and his capacity for life en-
HEALTH and PHYSICAL joyment is a factor that must be considered in any pro-
EDUCATION grain of education concerned with the total all-round
aa development of the individual.
Published by the . . . .
AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH, 2. Physical education should assist in the develop-
PHYSICAI. EDUCATION, AND RECREATION ment of sound mental health. The creation of desirable
__E. D. MITCHELL, Ph.D., Editor emotional and social attitudes is contributory to this
Contributing Editors end. In games the individual finds relaxation from
Row Tn Allen, Affleck Jay Nash PRD. strains and worries. He experiences self-expression ;
John Brown, Je MD. Geli Nerdinphb. | RE Knows the Joy and elation of activity for its own
rostlin Pe eon D. Miss Elizabeth Noves . sa €. 1S 11nd 1s rocused on objectiv es outsi¢ € unise! .
Elwood C. Dayis, Ph.D. W. W. Patty, Ph.D. Moreover, through contact with other individuals in
Floyd Bae Ph.D. Me Jace wee Rosen group activity he obtains an objective point of view.
Miss Ruth Evans as George TY Sontent Ed.D. learns to cooperate with his fellows and to be at ease
Mr. Strong Hinman S. C. Staley. Ph.D. with them. In addition, confidence and leadership de-
Mr. William R. LaPorte Mr. W. K. Srreit . . ogee
Miss Mabel Lee, L.L.D. Mr. Randall D. Warden velop from the attainment of skills. The individual
F, W. Luehring. Ph.D. Jesse F. Williams, M.D. : . r .
; who has mastery in a certain form of physical activity
ne gains prestige in the eyes of lis fellows which facilitates
| VOL. 13 FEBRUARY, 1942 Number 2 his group adjustment. Moreover, he finds that sports
furnish a laboratory experience in which emotional seli-
TT opay, because of the military | mastery is demanded. In this connection it is reasonable
A emergency, the physical develop- to assume that an athletic contest with its hopes, its
Restatement ment of our people is receiving special elation of victory, and its disappointment in defeat.
Values attention. Schools are expected to  lielps to prepare for the emotional crises of life.
promote the development of youth for 3. Physical education should embody a_ certain
potential service to their country. This service extends amount of intellectual content. Physical education 1s a
moreover to national loyalty and morale. Such an — discipline, inspired by challenging motivation because
emphasis in times of national crisis, however, should of its obvious application to life situations. To imple-
not obscure the contributions that physical education | ment the practical learning of the activity program, a
makes to normal living. Throughout history there have |= modern physical education program should also com-
been times when physical education became closely prise a certain amount of academic knowledge as source
woven into the pattern of the lives and into the national —‘ material for reflective thinking. The student should re-
ideals of peoples who have contributed to the progress quire knowledges, attitudes, and appreciations concern-
of mankind. Physical education was then and should — ing matters which will affect—and continue to affect-— |
be today a force not only in the preparation for war his daily life. As examples the following may be listed :
but also in the refinements of peace-time living. the principles of hygienjc living ; the values of exercise
This editorial, therefore, will consider the place of | in moderation, including the proper conditioning regi-
physical education in the student’s life from a long- men; safety rules, particularly as they apply to the gym-
range point of view and not from that of the immediate =‘ nasium, playground, and camp; the rules of first aid
emergency only. With this in mind, the main objectives and lifesaving together with experience in their appli- :
of physical education can be summarized as follows: cation; the philosophy and program of scouting and
1. Physical education should contribute to the devel- camping; and an appreciation of the various forms of
opment and maintenance of bodily health. In this at- sport and recreation that are well known to our present-
tainment, strength, vigor, and neuromuscular coordina- day society. Since these latter activities form part of
tion are sought as concomitants. Big-muscle activity our national culture, a new emphasis is coming into
is essential to biological growth, and scientific studies | physical education, namely, to consider its program in
show that high school and even college students are the light of contemporary anthropology. Consequently,
still in the period of maturation. There is here, of sports should be taught from the standpoint of history.
course, no implication that physical vigor will overcome rules, strategy, methods of organization, spectator un-
specific physical defects or that it will immunize the derstanding, and well-mannered conduct. It is import-
student to specific diseases such as tuberculosis, colds. ant, too, that stress be placed on sportsmanship and
heart disease, and diphtheria. The results of physical ethical conduct if the values inherent in physical edu-
activity on the vital organs of the body, however, are cation activities are to be fully realized.
acknowledged by the medical world. Optimum exer- 4+. Physical education should contribute to the de-
cise, in fact, is the best known means for such improve- velopment of good citizenship. All school subjects share
ment. Its effects on strength and endurance are dem- _.in this responsibility and physical education particularly
onstrated by the increased output of energy that in- — because of its unique opportunity to put principles into
dividuals subjected to a training reginien can produce. practice. It 1s generally agreed by educators that be-
| Thus in emergency the individual endowed with health havior is strongly influenced by activity in which habits
| is better able to meet the extra demands upon him. In are formed, emotions controlled, self-expression and
: 64 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION |
|

creative endeavor encouraged, and group adjustments also serve a community purpose by training certain in-
made possible. Since physical education is essentially | dividuals to be volunteer recreation leaders. This service
an activity program, any contributions it makes toward is particularly pertinent at the present time in the na-
the well-rounded individual are essentially contributions tional defense program. Moreover, those graduates who
also to his effective citizenship. Furthermore, the pos- have experienced a comprehensive physical education
session of health in itself is a factor affecting citizen- program will have an enhanced understanding of the
ship; the healthful individual is the one most apt to health and leisure-time problems of their communities
tackle life with zest, to face odds, to act with confidence, that will be an asset to them in assuming family, social,
and to give service. In physical education the attain- | and civic responsibilities.
ment of health 1s also coupled with the achievement ot
purpuse. The candidates for any athletic group soon In order to accomplish the objectives that have been
realize that they must train and respect their bodies if | outlined, certain resources in the way of facilities and
they are to produce their maximum achievement. Thus staff are necessary. Schools possess these resources in
is learned the lesson of self-discipline. Then, too, there varying degrees. There are certain shortcomings, how-
are standards of conduct that the contestant must learn ever, that can almost universally be noted. Outstanding
to follow if he is to be a well-adjusted member of his | among these is that of inadequate time allotment. With
group. The play world provides situations calling for the meager time at present at its disposal, the physical
choice in emergencies and conduct is shaped by the | education department must necessarily carry on a nar-
responses that are made. rowed program, especially where close individualized
Citizenship attributes, it must be admitted, are some- attention is needed. Because of the extra demands of the
what intangible in nature and therefore achievement war preparedness program some schools have already
toward them is difficult to measure. We see before us _ tried to enlarge their physical education offerings by
today, however, an example of the way in which totali- | voluntary classes. The results have not been satisfac-
tarian nations have utilized physical education to the tory. If the nation itself is committed to a program of
attainment of a strong national spirit and a seemingly draft service rather than voluntary service, it follows
irresistible will to conquer. If any lesson is to be gained = that programs of physical fitness, too, must be com-
from this picture it is that the education of the citizens pulsory if they are most quickly and efficiently to ac-
of a democracy, too, should be considered not only in complish the desired ends. ,
the light of satisfaction to the individual himself but also This limitation leads naturally to a consideration of
of service to the community and the state. Here then the importance of offering credit for the work that has
is a lesson to be learned in this adversity—that in peace been described. If physical education does contribute
time as well as war, our youth should be taught to to the all-round development of the student and his
appreciate the values, privileges, and responsibilities of preparation for life service, it is then the part of educa-
the democratic way of life. tional statesmanship to give this program a recognized
5. The physical education program should provide place in the curriculum. Such a recognition would en-
wholesome recreation. Recreation is essential in the hance the importance of physical education in the eyes
balanced life of the student. The‘more attractive the of the students; it would help to bring understanding
offerings of a sensible recreation program the less likely | and sympathetic support from the faculty as a whole:
is he to seek outlets of expression that are harmful. it would give new morale to the physical education staff
Besides providing immediate healthful and wholesome members who teach in this program; and it would also
recreation, however, the physical education department | permit the utilization of facilities during the entire day.
should also inculcate permanent leisure-time interests Throughout this editorial, physical education has been
which will carry over into adult life. Since individuals discussed from the standpoint of its enduring values as
in their leisure time tend to do the things that they do well as of present needs. The world situation has, of
well, it is‘the function of the required physical educa- | Course, focused attention on immediate needs. The
tion program to acquaint each student with the various Measures that have been suggested are directed toward
physical activities that can be pursued as present and _ the realization of such a contribution without losing
lifelong recreations and to help him gain proficiency in sight of those equally valuable contributions that will be
those for which he has special aptitudes. The intra- | "ecessary when peace is restored.
mural program—and the varsity program on a higher .
level—then becomes the laboratory for trying out the More Accident [ HE whole theory of education 1s to
skills that are taught in the required program. Finally. Prevention develop the ability of each individ-
it must be remembered that recreation is fun, and that Instruction ual to be more useful to society. Today,
the “pursuit of happiness’’ is one of the “inalienable Needed with accidents representing one of the
rights of man.” major causes of death and disability,
6. The physical education program should bring out training in their prevention is of vital importance.
latent possibilitics of a vocational nature. Through par- While some departments, such as physical education
ticipation, certain individuals will find their future pro- | and manual arts, have been teaching accident prevention
fession as physical education instructors, athletic in their particular fields for years, the subject as a gen-
coaches, playground leaders, or camp counselors. In eral theme is only now really coming into its own.
this connection, the physical education program should Physical education departments have been teaching
FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 85
: -

switnming for many years. Though such instruction — of national morale. That is why food is vital to defense.
might be primarily directed toward keeping the indi- What, then, can our schools do about food and de-
vidual physically fit, it is also the best known method of | fenser One thing is to help feed our children and
teaching that individual how to keep from drowning. teach them to know nourishing foods. This can be

Home accidents’ and traffic accidents account for done both in rural schools and in city schools.
roughly two-thirds of all fatal mishaps. And while in Even a single hot dish served in a rural school is
recent years much emphasis has been placed upon pedes- a real supplement to the lunch box filled at home.
trian traffic safety by the schools, there are relatively Good food habits are absolutely essential to the strong
few schools where driving instruction is provided. bodies and alert minds we need for defense. But good

It might be argued that the normal individual, in the — food habits cannot be built without good food. That
course of his upbringing, should absorb sufficient safety is why the actual provision of hot lunches is so im-
education to eliminate the need of devoting any special portant. We have learned from experience that when
effort to that branch of learning, if it may be called a children are fed properly the quality of their work
branch. But the number of fatal accidents, each year § improves, they respond more rapidly to ideas, and they
aggregating approximately 100,000, and the far greater play more vigorously and happily. Frequently, Jack

number of permanent and temporary disabilities caused is a dull boy because he hasn’t had enough or the
by mishap, are sufficient answer to any such argument. right kinds of food.

Some years ago the State of Georgia introduced first- Learning about preparing and handling foods is an-
aid training for pupils aged twelve years or older. The other important part of the learning experience.
Red Cross, which has been teaching first aid since 1910 = Those who study home economics are not only study-
and has trained more than three million persons in that ing to become good homemakers, but they are learn-
subject in that time, was called in to train the necessary ing essential facts about diet. By learning to put to
lay instructors through a series of institutes in strategic the best possible use the facilities they have, students
parts of the state. In many other school systems can raise the whole level of family living.
first-aid instruction is offered, either as an elective or I have been emphasizing what the schools can do
required course. about food for defense, and have not mentioned /how

Red Cross experience with first aid has shown that hot lunches are to be provided or how instruction in

the first-aider is a safe individual, both at work and nutrition is to be made feasible. These problems are
play. For that reason it should be included in every often more serious in country schools than in city
accident prevention program. This subject quite nat- schools, and for the isolated one-room country school
urally falls within the field of the physical education they seem almost insurmountable. But not quite.
department. Rural electrification has made many things possible

Most Red Cross accident prevention material is avail- | for the country school which were never possible be-
able free upon request to the nearest local chapter. fore. Even in very low income areas, REA-financed
Furthermore, the Red Cross First Aid and Accident electric power has meant that rural people can have
Prevention Service is prepared to train lay instructors | some of the greatest advantages of modern science.
so that the introduction of first aid and safety courses Now REA proposes to make loans for certain types
does not present any insurmountable difficulttes—By of electrical equipment which can be used by rural
Richard W. Thrush, First Aid and Accident Preven- schools or community centers, in order to help
tion Service, American Red Cross. strengthen the role of food in defense.

But using food for defense is more than a_ school
WW EN we say that our country task—it is also a community task. Many community
Strong Bodies is engaged in “all-out’’ defense, elements can rally around the school and help pro-
and we mean that all our energies, of | vide for hot lunches and the many teaching services
Alert Minds = body and mind, are being applied to — needed to train our children adequately. ‘How well
the great tasks before us. But what — the school contributes to defense depends on the com-
if our bodies lag and our minds are dull? munity itself.

The Surgeon General of the United States tells us A long time ago the Romans had a slogan, “A
that in America some “9,000,000 school children are sound mind in a sound body.” No doubt the disin-
not getting a diet adequate for health and well-being.” tegration of Rome as a nation was in part due to the
The Deputy Director of Selective Service has said that decline of its physical vigor. Ours is a young nation.
‘one-third of the rejections are due to nutritional We have done much. We can do more. We must
deficiencies.” Clearly, there is a connection between do more, now that we are faced with a conqueror as
the two statements. Today, the Army which defends ruthless as any in all history. We can meet and over-
us would be stronger if yesterday our children had come this threat only with strong bodies and alert
been given more and better food to eat. minds. Health has long been a cardinal principle of

All-out defense is not a matter of armies alone. education. Now is the time for schools to put that
Defense involves a whole people, alert and aroused principle into action on a broader front than ever
to protect the standards of life which they hold dear. —_ before ——By John W. Studebaker, U. S. Comissioner
All civilians—men, women, children—must play their of Education. (Reprinted by permission from the
parts in the battle of production and the maintenance November, 1941, issue of School Life.)

) 86 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

atety Precautions vs. Liability
By .
FRANCES J. MOENCH
Director of Athletics and Head of Department of Physical Education for Men
Cortland State Normal School, New York
HE ever-growing tendency of the courts to rule |* we approach this particular problem from the pre-
in favor of the plaintiff in liability suits, where ventive angle, which should be the first approach.
personal injury has been sustained by students in then the best rule or regulation will be to set up pro-
school activities, requires a thorough investigation with |= cedures which prevent accidents from occuring. Two
respect to administrative steps to protect the rights | studies which have made valuable contributions to the
of the teacher. Certain definite procedures should be — safe administration of physical education programs are
set up by (1) the school administrator, (2) the teacher (1) Safety in Elementary and Junior High Schools of
himself. However, let us not over-regulate in this New York City by Hubert Brown, (2) The Study of
respect. Safety education is not primarily a matter of | Safety in Secondary School Physical Education by
regulation, but a mutual acceptance of responsibility by Frank Lloyd. Some general procedures which should
all parties. Students must be willing to accept respon- —s reduce, limit, or eradicate accidents in the physical
sibility and to use ordinary caution. Teachers must education program taken from these sources may be
4 aes y ; Prog y
accept responsibility and use adequate methods and _ reviewed here.
activities in which hazards are at a minimum. Prin- ’
nal ‘ntendent d Boards of Educat; Brown's Study:
“tps S, superintendents, and boards 0 Heaton must 1. The school board should provide adequate school build-
accept responsibility and set the stage for safe environ- ings, grounds, and equipment that are free from hazards and
ment. I .et us not protect the teacher with rules and properly maintained.
regulations to the extent that he no longer takes the 2. Principals and teachers should be conscious of the safety
same interest in the safe conduct of his program. On needs in their areas, and have knowledge of the best methods .
. , ; to use for efficient instruction.
the other hand, let us not burden him with safety regu- 3. Adequate first aid materials should be provided and staff
lations which limit the freedom of a vital and adequate members should be qualified to render first aid when necessary.
program of activities in which the student is motivated 4, The safety program should be adapted to local conditions
to a vigorous and active participation in thrilling activi- | and needs.
ties. As a result of some recent court rulings, there 5. The outcomes of the program should be of a practical
- be a tendency { ' duall tail , nature. The development of desirable attitudes and habits
may a ten enc) or us O gradually curtal our pro- should be emphasized. The physical education program should
gram of physical education to the extent that it no stress the development of skills necessary for safety.
longer meets the need in terms of development of physical- 6. Routine inspection for hazards and the removal or safe-
physical fitness and social morale. The writer has the con- = Suarding of those discovered are important.
viction that we have been too concerned about the re- i 7. Pupils should be taught to recognize their own personal
. imitations.
sults of some court proceedings. 8. The only valid criteria for the efficiency of the safety
Several dilemmas face us at the present time. I be- education program is a decreasing accident rate.
lieve it has been shown in safety studies that less acci- 9. Publicize the safety program.
dents do occur in physical education activities if com- 10. Develop and utilize pupils in the safety program.
petently trained student leaders are used. Yet courts Il. Evaluate methods and materials used each The etm
have ruled that there is some basis for ij ; ating or improving those giving poor results. 1e teacher
| Basis Tor neghgence on should be his own worst critic.’
the grounds of inadequate supervision under a pro-
gram of student-leadership. Yet, at the same time Lloyd shows us that certain leadership factors, cer-
we know that one of the desirable outcomes of any _—-t#!"_-«oOrganuzational and classification factors, and cer-
educational program—especially the physical education tain direct safety measures contribute to a low incidence
program—is the development of initiative and the ac- 1" number of accidents and days lost. Among these are:
ceptance of responsibility. In other words, leadership (1) adequate officiating, (2) closer supervision, (3)
can only be developed through opportunities to lead. proper personal equipment, (4) proper playing field
The student leader—squad leader—plan is necessary in surfaces, (5) proper conditioning of players, and (6)
our program. We must not regulate against it. Pupil] thers."
teaching (practice teaching) in the training school is According to [Lloyd's study, the leadership proce-
necessary in our program, if we are to give experience dures which were coincidental with a low incidence
to prospective teachers. If we are to be stampeded by Wee as follows:
court rulings, we may, unwisely I believe, so regulate 1 Hubert E. Brown, “Safety in Elementary and Juntor
the pupil teaching practice in the interests of safety | High Schools of New York City.”
that we will defeat its real ?Frank 8. Lloyd, Study of Safety in Secondary School
purpose. Physical Education.’
FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 wv

1. The use of student leaders in physical education. purpose includes a follow-up procedure which will
2. Direct instruction in safety for these student leaders shows include: (1) the analysis of the accident, (2) removal
a lower incidence than no direct instruction in safety. . ;
3. A full-time teacher of physical education. of the focal points of danger, (3) attempts to prevent
a. similar accidents in the future.
The procedures of the organization and classification 2. Adequate supervision must be defined. The teacher
of students which are coincidental with a low incidence of physical education will have to set up rules of
are as follows: degree and character of supervision, for often his in-
1. The division of students by age within the physical edu- terest in the teaching is so unprofessional that he would
cation classes. . . sit under the shade tree during the playground period
ne baci serettion of students for interschool attic teams on ~~ or in his office working on football plays while his class,
€ Dasis O Cir participation in mtramural activities. : : . .! ° _
3. The determination of the student’s fitness for inter-school undirected in the gymnasium, ente rs into hazardous a c
competition by expert opinion of the coach or family doctor tivity. The character of SUPErVISION Varies according
is more efficient, by the criteria of days lost, than the parent's to local conditions, the age of the children, the type ot
written permission or a physical examination. activity, and other factors. Local institutional rules
4. Schools requiring a physical examination for physical should be thoroughly understood by teachers so that
education show a low incidence of days lost and accidents. th b ‘nted with what titutes ij
5. A low incidence is found where the examination is given ey may be acquainted with what constitutes negii-
before entering physical education activities and during the gence as a part of supervision. It is generally con-
school year. sidered adequate if a general degree of competent super-
; , aor ision i ided. 0 -
The direct safety measures which are coincidental mision is Provided ne on cher can see tard ih fun
with low incidence of days lost are as follows: ae _ Plays » 2 gu :
oe a swimming pool ordinarily; locker rooms do not re-
. The availabiity a, medical doctor when the class and = quire minute supervision; it is not necessary to have |
intramural physical ucation are in progress. .
2. The immediate treatment of injuries by the teacher of every piece of app aratus | covered by the teacher on ,
physical education. the floor. However, to instruct children, the list of
3. Free hospital service. | regulations governing the use of facilities and equip- )
Certainly, all instructors of physical education should Ment should be properly posted and all should be in-
be properly informed of the findings of the many fine formed of their content. The mere issuance of such
studies in safety which have been made recently. This,  ‘esulations is not sufficient to take the place of com- |
I believe, is one way the teacher may protect himself  Petent supervisors. |
from suit. 3. Permission slips. These are not waivers but ac- |
cording to Rosenfield, ‘“To a certain degree the liability |
[7 may be well at this time to discuss briefly some 35 less. It is good school administration. lt assures !
of the direct safety measures and regulations which Parental knowledge and permission for participation in !
have been recommended as administrative devices for the activity involved." Such a permission slip should
protection. be definite and show character of the activity, destina- |
1. A carefully worked out and supervised accident 10m, mode of conveyance, time of departure, etc. _
reporting system. 4. Liability insurance. Rosenfield states in this re-
a) Witnesses should be required to notify superiors—  SPect, The wisdom of purchasing liability insurance
eventually the Board of Education—within 24 hours ay be questioned from an educational point of view
on properly devised forms. The criteria of this pro- on the ground that the basic issue is the prevention
cedure should be promptness, accuracy, completeness. of injuries to children and that merely to relieve
b) The report: teachers of the responsibility for injury would leave the
Name and address of injured party. Type of ac- children in the sane hazardous position.” For the
tivity, class, place, date, hour. Name of person in board of education to carry liability insurance is a
charge. Written and signed statements of witnesses controversial question. It is protection to the teacher —
appended. Cause and extent of injury. Statement o’ and may be considered good administrative procedure
medical and other attention provided. by many, but it must not lessen the efforts of the
Statement of any items of contributory negligence teacher in his salety program.
on the part of the injured: information which might 5. Athletic Protection Fund. There can be no sound
be available as to previous physical disability or weak argument against membership in an athletic protection
ness of injured person. fund. But it is not a way out for the delinquent
Statement of physical and structural defects of the teacher. ction can still be brought against the teacher
place of accident. for negligence by the student injured. However, the
Note: Such forms should be on hand at all times and Chance of this is less. ae ,
the procedure must be known by all employees. The 6. Off-the-campus activities. The school board
cooperation of the students should be obtained in should adopt these activities, such as horseback riding,
recording exact conditions of the circumstances under boating, etc., as a legitimate part of a regular school |
which the accident occurred. program. If this is done, there will be the same pro-
c) It is not sufficient that accident reports be filed. tection to the teacher as with the on-campus activities.
even though complete and accurate. This may be the (Continued on page 113)
sole purpose in protection from suit, but the broader ~~" s Harry W. Rosenfield, Liability for School Accidents.
~ 88 HEALTH| AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

'
| ¢
Physical Education for Girl
By

N A program of physical education for girls, just GERTRUDE E. MOULTON. M. D

what is the place of any individual competitive ac- Dy t Ph - | Education { 4 ae

tivity, and what is the place of track and field espe- irector © Oberlin Callens. or Women
cially? At what age should skill be developed in these of
activities? Should they be in a list of required . a . .
activities? What is the relative amount of emphasis to over-emphasize the winning, OF SY mbol of value, in-
which should be placed upon them? How long should stead of the activity, or value itse It, The Standards
they be continued? What are the principles which weport . the Ne : ar The Lol the. Ose m
should guide us in the selection of activities? All these, . “nT hi eh . Wd ide ae a i a 16 ide w te
and other questions, should be answered clearly by piey: r ther een a eae a eT NEES
every teacher interested in the development of the child AS HT alt ORNETS.
more than in the teaching of an activity. , .

There is ample evidence to suggest that track and Ton answer to the question concerning the. age at
field events have great value in a sports program. There . which track-amd held events should be stressed ltes
is joy in the feel of the wind against the body as one in the physiological development of the individual, and
races across a field, or senses the smooth rhythm of in the needs of the society , of which she is a part.
sailing through the air in a well-executed jump or If we are committed to a society which rests both upon
hurdle. The mastery of the coordinations which enables the development of the individual as an indep endent,
one to employ her antagonistic muscles with just the thin king being, capable of determining his own line of
right timing and balance of force to project herself meres and seeking his own ends, and also upon the,
through space with the greatest economy, brings satis- ma ed development of the group, with each member
faction. It develops a sense of self-mastery and self- taking responsibility tor the good of the whole and each
assurance. It demands sufficient time and effort and member able to modify his own reactions to enable
daring to insure some growth of initiative, and per- himself to unite with and to progress with the whole,
sistence, and physical courage. When this effort is then the child needs to develop independence of action,
employe d against a competitor of similar ability, the 2" ability to compete with others with tenacity and en-
interests and the results are increased. If, in addition, durance, and also an ability to cooperate with others,
an understanding coach analyzes the faults, points out and to merge his interests in the larger interests of the
the values, keeps the problem one which is difficult but whole. a er .
not too difficult for the performer, all this helps to de- The child’s physiological development 1S somewhat
velop stamina and a sense of fair play, and under- dependent upon the chemistry of his metabolism, and
standing. Under such direction track and field events especially upon the glandular secretions. Although one
become excellent tools for individual development as cannot separate the effects of the various chemical com-
recreative activities which bring joy and satisfaction. pounds, one can perhaps suggest that there is a rela-
The essential characteristics of such tools, however, are tionship between a normal secretion of the adrenal
not peculiar to these events. They can be found in gland and the initiative of the child, or his desire to
many other forms of individual competitive sports. Ex- enter into activity and to try himself out against others.
perience and skill sufficient to enjoy a variety of in- About the age of ten to twelve, this desire to fight, to
dividual competitive activities is almost a necessity for compete, to excel, is usually marked. This, th en, would
the development of one capable of strength in her indi- seem to be the age for the greatest emphasis on track
vidual life. It matters little which sports are developed. and field, and other individual competitive activities.
This value to the child is determined by the difficulty This is the time to encourage competition, but always
of coordinations demanded compared with her present to safeguard the child from exploitation. For some
degree of skill; by the amount of interest or desire children circumstances of environment and of indivi-
which can be developed within her to excel in the dual capacity oF development will make one form of
activity offered; and by the amount of effort and physical- individual competitive activity seem best, while other
physical power demanded compared with her present organic children will find greatest satisfaction in other forms.
strength. Although it would seem wise to develop several sports

In track and field events it is sometimes difficult not to the point that the child feels somewhat at home in

them, a few should be given greater importance so that

This paper submitted by the Women’s Athletic Section. (Continued on page 108)

FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 B9

A Workable Posture Project
By
TTIW. ; ; , ae
N oN students on the campus in various activities, a great need was THELMA ELLIOTT
posture correction. Good or bad posture is often reflected in attitude,
and vice versa, and in our particular case we felt that this was undoubtedly true. BERTHA OSNES
Many of our students came from the transient section and a listlessness and “don’t
care” attitude had resulted in a general slump of the body not entirely due to RUBY SANBORN
fatigue or malnourishment. Tulare, California,
Before there could be any correction, there had to be a knowledge of what ¢s Union High School
good posture, with attention called to common faults among high school girls of
today. Above all, there had to be the desire to improve. We believed that three-
fourths of the battle would be won by making the girls posture conscious, so we During class time. two
decided to do all that a health and physical education department, consisting of periods each week were
one nurse and two teachers, could do to vitalize a posture project. The three phases given over to special pusture
we agreed upon were: work for the students m
]. Individual physical examination with explanation. corrective classes. General
2. Corrective classes with specific exercises. toning-up exercises making
3. Taking and showing silhouettes of all girls. all parts of the body as lim-
A physical examination was given to every girl who was registered in second- __ ber as possible were stressed
or third-period physical education classes-—approximately one hundred thirty girls. — for all. Where advisable,
We were able to offer this help only in these two classes because of assistance in __ rest was substituted for ex-
teaching. One teacher did all the examining and took time in each case to explain __ ercise the other three days.
to the girl just what her physical defects were and what she could do, through It was found that postural
exercise, to improve or overcome them. It was felt that this was time well spent knock - knees, back - knees,
because individual attention makes far more impression than any amount of group pronation, kyphosis, _for-
instruction. ward head, high shoulder,
Each girl was examined individually (this is important). Such defects as high and high hip were the most
shoulder, high hip, knock-knees, back-knees, pronation, forward head, kyphosis, common defects. Good pos-
scoliosis, lordosis, and extremely lax abdominal muscles were recorded. In each ture down to the smallest
case the cause of the defect was explained and constructive suggestions given. detail was stressed, espe-
After the examinations were finished, twelve of the most extreme cases in each — cially means of self-testing
of the two periods were singled out for corrective work. The class was then aug- so that the individual could
mented by students tell for herself whether or
observed by the nurse Before , . . ; After not she had a good posture.
or physical education | a — Students were released,
teachers who were in | ae | | probably sooner than they
other periods and : , should have been, to make
needed posture work: room for more new people.
Some were in the cor- They were released with the
rective class by recom- promise to carry on their
inendation of physical- work outside of class. Their
clans; others came in | progress was carefully
of their own volition. checked. We were able to
The class was limited reach over sixty girls in
to fifteen students at this manner. ;
one time. Lack of equipment is
[each student was often used as an excuse for
given a card on which not having a corrective pro-
was listed her physical- gram. In our case, we
physical defects and speci- started with two pieces of
fied exercises for their equipment, viz., tumbling
correction. She was : mats and a set of stall bars
asked to take this . for two people. We added
home and devote fif- a ws very inexpensive equipment
teen minutes each dav — E s to this—bricks covered with
to these exercises. ; lite si cotton padding and canvas
a
90 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

|
| for extension rolls, and wooden wands 1” in diameter
: and 314’ long, made in the school shop. :
| One thing that we still need very much is a three- s |
paneled full-length mirror. There’s nothing so effective .
as seeing yourself. We have also asked for individual 4
stools for next year. Expensive leather-covered plinths
are excellent but not essential or possible in most high :
school programs.
The last quarter of the year the nurse was able to
help those needing correction, in each period, daily. Stu-
dents began the class with corrective rest until she was
able to join them. With the addition of a third teacher
next year, corrective classes will be offered each period
for two days a week. The girls are not aware of this
and are asking if they can register for correctives in
second and third periods. If for no other reason, we |
feel that this willingness to improve justifies our efforts. |
No amount of talking actually reaches many ado- Ab
lescents, or adults, but something tangible, something '
| personal will often inspire action. We felt that a sil- } 4
houette—almost life size—would do this. The interest
of all human beings in a picture is well known, and
, interest is the ideal motivator for correction. Our aim Before , , . ; After
| was “‘to see yourself as others see you” and then do
something about it. which were 24”’x12”x4”". A 1000-watt flood light was
In order to take silhouettes it was necessary to pro- placed at the far end of the booth on a stool 40” high
. vide a special booth which would give privacy and so that it struck the body in the midline; this prevented
_ adequate lighting. This booth was easily constructed the appearance of unnatural angles on the finished sil-
by one of the school carpenters and a framework was _}ouettes.
| erected in the corner of the hallway leading into the We used a Retina camera to take the photographs—
| girls gytnasiam of 1x2” boards and built 10° long one we were able to borrow from one of the teachers.
| and +’ wide and 8’ high; thus only one side and the —_A_ 36-exposure Finiopan film was used. By purchasing
| top needed to be covered, for which butcher paper was films in a can and rolling them ourselves, we obtained
| used, Over the open end was hung a sheet on which ten 36-exposure rolls for $3.50. If purchased individ-
| had been drawn horizontal and vertical lines with ordi- —_yally, the cost would have been $9.00 for ten rolls. The
nary black crayon. In order to project the entire body = camera, on a tripod, was placed 12’ in front of the
on the screen it was necessary to have the subject stand — screen. The subject stood directly behind the screen
| on a specially constructed bench, the measurements of — with the approximate mid-line of the body centered
with the cross lines on the screen.
Before After In taking the silhouettes, the best costume was found
: to be a brassiere and scanties because they were least
} obvious, and were more easily obtained than a bathing
“wd suit. An oiled silk cap was worn to keep the long
| a bobbed hair off the neck. The identity of the student
was kept by means of giving each pupil a number which
corresponded with the number on the screen and indi-
) cated the left side of the subject. Individual envelopes
. were provided for the finished film.
= The total cost of the program, which involved sil-
houette pictures of 576 students, was:
Lumber.......000000...0......§ 1.60
Sheet oon. oS
Butcher paper ............ .30 .
: Films, 18 rolls .... ..... 6.60 .
Developing .................. 20.00—could be done at school if by a
reliable person
Camera ..................... 57.00—this .was borrowed from one
. 3 teacher ;
Projector ................. 53.00—could be rented or borrowed
: | = Floodlight ............... ..... 20.00—borrowed from auditorium stage
! © . core equipment.
! kh i. (Continued on page 114)
FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 91

fe‘ >t t "4 +> lf .
| y a ~~ = ‘- _ vs % s c -
ag ae, ye. . ae 5 y ‘ * , ia we) oA
\ —. -~ SR 23 ~* .- 2 yo
| e* io. © ' = | LS A . ee 7
a ie - # = ae x 7 = _ Pe, da cab ¥. Pb : a . on
| . An a at i. AO (AOD REY Bae :
a A eT rill 4 Ls ,) : a py ya , : toa “~ +. a F tof
| ~ . . . 4 - Z iA Z tiger” 4 am é , :
) | Xe 4 “* . » Pi | ee —
. ‘ \ bal A ee Pe e
Be 4k eee
ums i 3 : a er - | aa eee 7 ») ere. . ; ri ; apes oo . 4 af
0 ; = on . pee 2 ott Oy = - sar . 3 ~~ _;
Bee. | a nt ae —_ P ; , Fs : pa we. : a OF a
* —_ ge SE Spee sw yr pi Pa, Fo ; ite ote Fa a - As
: ee ox = 4 % e > ¢ ‘ a eee . —- i a : we we = 7 te ;
Sr 1 SAIS Sy ~ o 3% : os a s ae : wae: 4 ad $ agp eS ~ af i = - aad
What Is S ior Pert
h A hi ics?
in Junior High Athletics:
By OR a period of four years, records have been kept
he scores of junior high school students of
MURRAY ae s of Jumor hig
ROY J. Mc U A Saginaw, Michigan, in track events. In the fol-
Director of Physical Education , lowing article a summary of the records made by super-
Saginaw, Michigan, Public Schools ior pupils, selected from the total number of over four-
7 teen thousand, is reported. The following points about
the method of compiling the statistics should be noted.
1. They are compiled in two weight levels in each
age division.
2. You will note that the girls weight divisions vary
: a little from the boys because of the physiological
3 make-up.
a 3. The records of 2,880 boys and girls were used in
i making the final averages from which these statistics
st were compiled. Each individual record was made in
ia 4 competition with other boys and girls of the same age
we : and weight division.
——— Si. wy ; 4+. The record of 32 boys or 32 girls 1s used in each
oe? wa” t event in determining the average. (The records of 8
- md sae ee 7 contestants for each year for four consecutive years
> Ph “ were used to make up the 32 best records). Every boy
. bat . ee
ym ~~ and girl who participated was a normal, healthy, ath-
? ae as letic individual. Each one was examined physically be-
me “at ys). .4 fore participating in the events.
Sy & » ae eS \\Se 5. Each boy and girl entered onlv one event (the
= ae @ 4 : one for which he was the best fitted).
we om ba 4 = 6. Weight and age of each contestant was checked.
ORS -) é . 7. Field events were carried on from proper take-offs
a oe rn . ] ye ; and into good jumping pits. Track events were run
5 & : an ‘ , under ideal conditions on cinder tracks with lanes
{ we > 4 marked for each runner. T2me was recorded by three
" 4 , jew stop watches. Competent officials started and checked
Pee P Pp
| a each race —every official either a health education
92 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

teacher or athletic coach. A corps of 26 officials was = § Put ay , 3 eo 3
used each time the events were in progress.
8. Each boy or girl was trained for the event he ; :
entered for a period of six weeks. Pe a3 ie. Wee a
_ 9. Each boy or girl was trained in proper methods of [| ~ eee iF Fad ¥ at A Rat wine
starting and proper take-off for jumps. eee RTS Tay Vn ee ; i Fo
10. Races were started with a starting pistol and were - BNO Die. oe . Y pe eer
finished by breaking the finish line. Spike shoes were e i. f tance, @
not worn, but each contestant wore either track shoes s [2 ie ee é /
without spikes or tennis shoes. 4 ue o
11. All contestants in the competition were eligible in ies »
their school work and in physical fitness according to a5 P- z
: . ° ° a ~~ TR oe
the rules of the Michigan High School Athletic Asso- = = aul —
ciation.
12. In using the following Statistics, please keep in _ of achievement shows a gradual increase in every phase
mind that the records of the eight outstanding athletes as they progress in age and weight.
in each event were used. These averages of outstanding Compare the records of the lightweight and heavy-
contestants from each of four junior high schools com- _weight divisions and you will find a growth in physical
piled each year, and the records for a period of four development that compares with their physiological
years are included in these statistics. All records ob- structure. The same situation is true for the girls’ divis-
tained are recorded and filed covering a period of four —_ ions in the 12-year class, a gradual increase in every
years. | phase of activity.
Lightweight Divisi ls H ; tee te
A neler vores healthy A ochece uo veal. healthe Lightweight Division—Girls Heavyweight Division—Girls
athletic girl 12 years old who athletic girl 12 years old who A select, normal, healthy. A select, normal, healthy,
weighs 90 Ibs. or under can: weighs over 90 Ibs. can: athletic girl 13 years old who athletic girl 13 years old who
Run 50-yd. dash— 7.5 sec. Run 50-yd. dash— 7.3 sec. weighs 100 Ibs. or under can: weighs over 100 Ibs. can:
Run 75-yd. dash—10.6 sec. Run 75-yd. dash—10.4 sec. Rum 50-yd. dash— 7.2 sec. Run 50-yd. dash— 7.1 sec.
Run 100-yd. dash—13.65 sec. Run. 100-yd. dash—13.4 sec. Run 75-yd. dash—10.5 sec. Run 75-yd. dash—10.1 _ sec.
High jump —_4’ High jump —4’ 1” ek 100-yd. dash7M sec. ie 100-yd. dash ee
Broad j —12’ 4” Broad jum —12’ 9” igh jump — igh jump —
roa Fam yume Broad jump —12)7" Broad jump = —13" 3”
Lightweight Division—B Heavyweight Division—Boys
rn select normal, healthy A vclect normal healthy Lightweight Division — Boys Tleavyweight Division— Boys
athletic boy 12 years old who athletic boy 12 years old who A select, normal, healthy, A select, normal, healthy,
weighs 85 Ibs. and under can: weighs over 85 Ibs. can: athletic boy 13 years old who athletic boy 13 years old who
Run 50-yd. dash— 7.4 sec. Run 50-yd. dash— 7.1 sec. weighs 95 Ibs. and under can: weighs over 95 Ibs. can:
Run 75-yd. dash—10.4 sec. Run 75-yd. dash—10.2 sec. Run 50-yd. dash— 7.1 sec. Run 50-yd. dash— 6.6 sec.
Run 100-yd. dash—13.6 sec. Run 100-yd. dash—13.4 sec. Run 75-yd. dash—10.2 sec. Run 75-yd. dash— 9.6 sec.
High jump —4’ 4" High jump —_4’ 4” Run 100-yd. dash—12.8 sec. Run 100-yd. tahoe sec.
Broad j —12 9” Broad i —13’ 5” High jump — + §” High jump — 47"
mse Fame reas dame Broad jump —13' 6” Broad jump = —15" 6”
Summarization of the 12-Year Divisions——These
boys and girls 12 years old are the normal 7th-grade Summarization of 13-Year Divisions—These boys
pupils. They have developed normally both mentally | and girls 13 years old are the normal 8th-grade pupils.
and physically with little or no handicap. Their record (Continued on page 111) .
ba ‘ <tc Sinn . 6 | : .
. ; ° Se 4 ~ . ,
reste al oie | ! & |
—— me, td } ik eh a . s ; e
eae eS a Sa a hs }
pe es be : oe
woe? a ENTE ap ° Be a ae ’ a
“oa aes 3 +e, = AD
byw : 3-6 -SS . oe “ny a, . f ae
> 3S ae oo | ~~ . 4
" CE es . Soh) a }
: , XS ¥. Ls ‘ ,
> al a” 4 a ¥ p
‘
lx
"8 L&D * ~ Ve
| ; Wee. e di
| Y | PP] > ”
| - : as a 4
[ Ag ee =

A Recreational G P
. By
EDNA COLE |
Cheyenne High School
Cheyenne, Wyoming
HYSICAL education should furnish every pup1l enlisting the service of good student leaders may solve
Drv a broad variety of activities so that each one the problems of loafing and lack of interest. Since the
will attain certain attitudes, knowledges, and skills techniques of some recreational sports are mastered
- desirable at the present time and later in adult life. In- easily, interest may lag if they are offered singly ; four
cluded in these activities should be a repertory of re- or five offered simultaneously, or with a part of the
creational sports, such as badminton, bowling, clock season devoted to each one, makes an effective pro-
golf, deck tennis, hand tennis, handball, horseshoes, gram. If there is a shop in the school, equipment for
paddle tennis, shuffleboard, table tennis, and tetherball. recreational sports can be made very inexpensively:
Since these sports have an unusual carry-over value in Ithough it may not be as well balanced as commuer-
adult life, the student should gain more than novice a 8 y es ; ;
1: a ; 4 cially made equipment, it will be suitable for the pupil
skill and knowledge in some in order that they may be- ;
; yore earning how to play the game.
come pleasurable leisure-time activities. It j k able f ; 1 his
The recreational sports program is so varied that tis hot easy to make available or each pup! his
each student will find one activity in which he will be- choice of activites ; furthermore, proficiency in certain
come intensely interested ; furthermore, this unit of phy- recreational sports, so essential in leisure-time educa-
physical education is the only one which attracts some pu- “on, 18 achieved only by continual practice. Neverthe-
pils. To realize one’s self as an identity—a worth-while ess, before the pupil selects his activity, he should have
individual or a leader—is a vital experience for every some experience in several recreational sports. If there
student ; in the recreational sports program one student is a flexible school and physical education program, a
may excel in one activity while another will be superior different recreational sport may be offered each day
in a different one. Exceptional opportunity for student during the same period. The student chooses his activity
leadership and corecreation is present. When the ele- interests and attends class on those days. That the
ment of competition is introduced, class interest is in- teacher can devote her entire attention to instruction in
creased. This program affords participation in sports one activity is an advantage of this plan; that additional
to the physically handicapped who, otherwise, could not equipment is required for each sport, its chief disad-
participate in the more strenuous sports. Every pupil vantage. Another possibility is to offer in each class
in the physical education class should know the re- period two or three recreational sports during each sea-
sources within his community for activity and the pro- son of the year in conjunction with the major activity.
gram should create a desire for recreation in the home: and a student may select recreational sports for one
since the equipment for many recreational sports 1s in- season rather than the season’s activity. Experience in
expensive and easy to make, these are readily adapted a variety of recreational sports gained during earlier
to home use either indoors or outdoors on the lawn, school years may be followed by the selection of interest
driveway, or sidewalk. during the junior and senior years. On the other hand.
Not without some difficulty are recreational sports in the course of a single school year every pupil may
included in the instructional program of physical edu- be permitted to elect his activity during the last two or
cation. These games are as strenuous as two or four three weeks of the season in recreational sports. The
players wish to make them; therefore, pupils may tend — intramural program—after school, noon-hour, and co-
to loaf. Moreover, maintaining interest throughout the recreational—offers an exceptional opportunity for the
season may be a problem. Funds for physical educa- — promotion of activity interests.
tion may be limited so that the equipment for recrea- In large classes the utilization of all the available
tional sports cannot be obtained, and its maintenance, | Space requires ingenuity and careful planning. Per-
once obtained, is difficult. Allowing the pupil a choice haps an unoccupied stage close to the gymnasium may
of sports either for the entire program or for a part of be used for darts, table tennis, or rope jumping. A
it presents another problem. Classes may seem too hallway from the locker room, a corridor, or a balcony
large for the space available; efficient class organiza- may be converted into a shuffleboard court. An empty
tion 1s not readily achieved ; teacher instruction for each basement room may be put to use as a bowling alley.
activity at one moment (viz., when all groups change 4 attic or a store room, previously filled with useless
activities simultaneously) is impossible. material, may be teeming with activity after it has
Placing recreational sports on a competitive basis or been transtormed into a recreational sports room. Each
“this article submitted by the Women’s Athletic Section of situation presents its peculiar problems and must be
a the AAHPER. handled accordingly.
“ by HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

e
The following are some possible eo TD 0- T TTT TT
floor layouts for the gymnasium, T BOM SE nnn RO nn = a nn 20 a tn
| with suggested class organization. | Se 0 :
: 1. Large Gymnasiums. — In Fig- | Y7
| ure 1, it 1s seen that if eight pupils | al ) | | |
play deck tennis and four play each |
of the other sports, there are thirty-
two pupils engaging in activity at | | shettle- [0 : :
one time. Probably the most effec- 54'| Peek | cenes _ Badminton (2) ~Badmratar Reed, cant
tive organization is four squads with | (4) 4)
eight pupils in a squad. The squad
leader, or a different leader for each |
recreational sport, helps instruct, as- |
sumes responsibility for equipment. |
and keeps score for his group. A
round-robin tournament is the form | == as ee
of competition within each squad, |
and a player retains the same part- v
ner throughout the-tournament. If Figure 1. Floor plan ! for large gymnasiums. - ;
one game lasts an entire physical °
education period, playing the round-
robin tournament in each activity TOURNAMENT SCHEDULE
will requre three days. Pheer _ OU eet
it will take twelve days for every Days: 1 2 3. 4 5 6 7 8 a
player to complete a tournament in = Teams: 1-4 3-4 13 14 3-4 13 14 34 13 14 3-4 13
all activities. 2-3 1-2 24 2-3 1-2 2-4 2-3 1-2 24 23 1-2 2-4
The scheduling for the tourna- ts
| ment is shown in the table at the gp gtehoard
right. andtetherball —iI IV II II
| There are possible variations of — Table tennis II I IV III
' such an organization. (1) At the | Badminton Tit II I IV
end of the described round-robin Peck tennis IN HI — i —
, tournament, winners of each squad a _—
! play each other; the team placing .
second in each squad plays the sec- e— — I eer CODD
ond-place teams of the other groups, T kr-1—F t a4,—_—___,___4¢ —______#; 6’ 2
etc. (2) A ladder tournament may | onl
be substituted for the round-robin im bed Ve —
plan. (3) The round-robin tourna- | , _
ment in each activity may be com- | mm (a) | ;
pleted in one day. (4) An 4intra- | PF
mural tournament between the win- | Cr tk ser sth ok mae 3 ——____+—__1+— — nile
ners of each class may bring the | in SS Sn San Ce, oni.)
season to a climax. (5) Within each SF ma ai
squad, players may change partners | . Badefntos
every day (it will take seven days | Ci
before a player returns to his orig- |
inal partner). (6) Competition may | LN SS ST SS SSS Sel
be based upon the total games won | - Rope jumping " - s s Ea
and lost or upon total running score ria 4) A ; CS Ea
for all activities. (7) If there are v Ueic=f' = :
one or two extra players in each Figure 2. Floor plan I! for large gymnasiums.
squad, each pupil may take his turn
at officiating. (8) Available hall
space utilized for darts, bowling, box hockey, rope Figure 2 represents a possible layout of courts in a
jumping, or horseshoes will accommodate the extra pu- large gymnasium. If eight students play on each deck
pils. (9) For an informal tournament, the class time tennis court and eight play mass badminton, fifty-six
, may be so divided that each squad may rotate from students may be participating simultaneously. In a
one sport to another during a single period. (10) Each smaller gymnasium — 54’ x 74’ — by eliminating the
. team in one squad may challenge a couple in another shuffleboard court and utilizing a singles deck tennis
| squad in a certain activity. (Continued on page 109)
FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 95

The Barnes Dollar S nous Library
This popular sports library offers to sports enthusiasts the most complete and exciting collection of sports books now
published. New books are being added regularly. Each book is illustrated and attractively bound in full cloth. These
popular books will help you to W IN and to ENJOY your favorite sports. PICK YOUR SPORT AND PLAY IT!
ARCHERY, by Natalie Reichart and Gilman Keasey ROPING, by Bernard S. Mason
A complete handbook on winning archery. Mr. Keasey’s suc- Roping and rope spinning! How they intrigue the imagina-
cess with the “relaxed method” caused the authors to follow tion. Read and learn about this little known, well liked sport
this principle throughout. . :
BETTER BADMINTON SOFTBALL, by A. T. Noren
By C. H. Jacks dL.A.S ? The game that rivals baseball in popularity is softball. Here
Here is a book valuable to beginner and expert alike. Each is a good gu ide. to better Softball playing. Fundamentals an
point is analyzed and illustrated. Includes Rules. team play explained. cial Rules included.
BASEBALL, by Daniel E. Jessee SWIMMING, by R. J. H. Kiphuth ;
Each position in baseball is carefully and clearly outlined Yale’s famous coach tells how to be a championship speed
and analyzed by the author. True-False questions! swimmer. Every coach and swimmer will want this book.
BASKETBALL FOR GIRLS, By Meissner and Meyers TRACK AND F IELD, by Ray Conger
: This famous Olympic star and coach covers the whole scope
is necuectely lume stresses jast, accurate floor play. Each step of track and field fundamentals in this volume. True-False
" questions !
BASKETBALL, by Charles Murphy
The background, fundamentals, and plays of basketball are SKATING, by Harold Putnam and Dwight Parkinson
explained step by step. True-False questions! Learn to be a better. skater by reading this simple informal
BOWLING, oy Joe Farcaro and Murray Goodman . and ‘tlustrat od or plain an gure skating are expial
e fundamentals and principles of championship wling |
are outlined and described by a Champion Bowler. The read- SKIING, by Walter Prager
er is shown how to overcome obstacles to good bowling. Advice for beginners and lor expert skiers, is to be found in
. . this y Dartmouth’s famous coach. re-season training
BOXING, by pein " raiser ke which t= in logical instructions included.
well written and illustra which presents in logica
progression skills and techniques boxers must master. WRESTLING, by C. oalaener ni ad. funda
. championship coac escribes e techniques a unda-
FENCING, by J oseph Vince mentals that have produced the best intercollegiate wrestlers.
A complete understanding of Nt pundamentals of fencing may Pictures of holds given.
be acquired from this . phases of the sport are covered. |
Explanations are clear and concise. RIFLE MARKSMANSHIP "7 we W. L. Stephens, rr
ells how to improve your score an ome an expert. :
HOW TO THEE LIES, by a c. ores ° ft! The valuable to rifle clubs, home defense units, etc.
at a thrill to take a fish on a fly you made yourselt ! j
author describes the tools, hooks and materials used in fly- GOLF, by Patty Berg and Otis Dypwick
; tying. The step-by-step instructions are easy to follow. The famous golfer tells how she learned championship golt.
FOOTBALL. by Glenn Killinger All fundamentals are outlined, illustrated and described.
Everything from. handling the ball to generalship and. strategy BAIT CASTING, by Gilmer G. Robinson
is covered in this practical book. Improve your football Complete information on the sport of baitcasting, how to catch
knowledge with this book. fish, tournaments, equipment, hints, etc.
SIX-MAN FOOTBALL, by Ray O. Duncan - TENNIS, by Helen Hull Jacobs
Many athletic directors have discovered in Six-Man Football A clear and concise book by one of our most popular cham-
the ideal game for their students. The text has been prepared pions. The author analyzes the game in the light of her own |
especially for the coach who has had little training in football. experience and gives basic standards to follow. |
All fundamentals are described and illustrated. ICE HOCKEY, by Eddie Jeremiah
FUNDAMENTAL HANDBALL, Dartmouth’s successful coach outlines a definite system of |
by Bernath E. Phillips play and includes tested methods of offensive and defensive
Handball for fun and health! Clear, concise instructions for hockey. A chapter on goal tending is included.
players and instructors. Includes Rules. FIELD HOCKEY FOR GIRLS, by Josephine T. Lees
. LACROSSE, by Tad Stanwick Particular attention has been given to individual play im
Learn the game that is steadily growing in popularity! This relation to team play. A series of 41 charts help the reader
is the first complete book on the sport. Drawings and photo- to master the fundamentals of winning field hockey.
graphs illustrate techniques and plays. SOCCER AND SPEEDBALL FOR GIRLS,
RIDING, by Colonel J. J. Boniface by Florence Hupprich
Learn to ride correctly! Read this authoritative book which Outlines fundamental techniques, describes faults of begin-
covers everything from the fundamentals to the advanced ners and how to correct them, and includes a chapter on
techniques of riding. officiating.
Each book is bound in cloth, fully illustrated and priced at $1.00
Every school, recreational center, coach, physical instructor, can use these books for constant reference and study. Over
200,000 volumes are now in use. Have you our Sports Catalogue?
A. S. BARNES AND COMPANY
. 67 West 44 Street National Headquarters for Books and Sports New York

OO eek
° ° .
To Be Published In April!
A History of Physical Education
In The United States
74
By Norma Schwendener, Ph.D., Professor of Physical Education
Teachers College, Columbia University
Here, at last, is a modern history of physical education in the United States interpreted by one
who has been intimately connected with the tremendous strides that physical education has made
in the last twenty years. The author in presenting her material has been concerned with its
historical presentation in correlation with the cultural, social, political and economic aspects of
American life. The text is developed within periods ‘of American history rather than dealing
with any single school of thought. The use of dates is limited almost entirely to those which
divide the periods. The effect of European philosophies on physical education is outlined and dis-
cussed. The work of outstanding organizations in this country who have influenced physical
education and its development is traced and described. |
Students will find by using this book why physical education is an integral part in the develop-
ment of American culture. Cause and effect influencing physical education as a whole will. be-
come more conspicuous than isolated historical facts. The book is concluded with a study of
physical education in European countries and how, especially in totalitarian countries, physical
education was used as part of war training only. And lastly, full consideration is given to the
part played in this country of governmental agencies in promoting physical education, sports
and recreation. The book 1s fully illustrated with old prints, contemporary pictures and modern
photographs.
THE CONTENTS
THE Corontar Perton (1609-1781) 8. Teacher Training and the Introduction
1. Life in the American Co!onies of Swedish Gymnastics ;
THE ProvinctaL Periop (1871-1885) 9. Thomas Dennison Wood, Luther Halsey
2, Emergence of Modern Physical Education Gulick, Clark Hetherington
in Europe _. 10. The Playground Movement
3. The Turnverein in The United States 11. The Early Years of the Twentieth Century
4. Americanism AMERICAN Puysicat Epucation (1918-
5. Education and Exercise for Girls and , 12. Years of Prosperity .
Women . 13. Dance as an Integral Part of Physical
6. Dioclesian Lewis i4 Coon ary Physical Education and
7. Physical Education in Post-Civil War ” Recreation -
years. 15. Physical Education and Nationalism
THE CLIMAX AND WANING OF EUROPEAN Bibliography
INFLUENCE Index |
8vo. Cloth, Fully Illustrated, Probable Price $2.00
EXAMINATION COPIES: Teachers are urged to send in their requests for examination
copies with view to using the book as a classr oom text tmmediately. As soon as the book is
ready you will receive your copy in ample time to study it so that you can make your selection
for the Fall semester.
Educational Publishers Since 1838
67 West 44th Street New York
Oi

FFECTIVE: and universal education 1s the bul- *
wark of self-government. The long-time battle ( OO S
for democracy .will be won in the schools.
Whether it survives will depend upon how earnestly
itizens desire to maintain it, and how well prepared
_ citizens desire to maintain it, and prep What Forces Teachers Out of School
they are to make its principles work.
Prices are going up and the value of the buyer's
Weakening Defenses dollar is coming down. The cost of living has gone
It is of utmost importance to the American way of up 11 per cent since August, 1939. Food prices are up
life that we not weaken our long-time defense. This 19 per cent. A dollar at the grocer’s has declined to
was done in the War of 1917-18. Inflated living costs the value of slightly more than 80 cents.
compelled low-salaried teachers to accept better wages During these two years, the twelve million factory
in business and industry. Their places in the school- — workers have received an increase of 30 per cent in
rooms were filled largely by unqualified people. Part average weekly earnings. Farmers have shared in this
of the physical and educational fitness of youth re- trend. Cash income from farm products has gone up
jected for military service today can be charged to the 45 per cent. Teachers’ salaries, for the most part, have
"inadequacies forced upon the schools during and fol- remained static.
lowing the World War. It is estimated that the cost of living will increase
Every citizen who really believes in the democratic another 15 per cent in 1942, even if a start ts made
way of life may help prevent a more dangerous recur- toward price control. Prices by the end of 1942 will
rence of these harrowing effects on the schools. Al- in all probability be at least 25 per cent higher than
ready we are entering the first cycle of events similiar — they were in August, 1939.
to those which devastated the schools during and fol- To a city teacher earning an annual salary of $2,000,
lowing the last World War. Teachers, in large num- this will mean a cut to $1,500 a year. More than half
bers, are leaving their classrooms for better-paid jobs of the teachers are being paid less than $2,000. The
in defense industries. , average salary of rural teachers is only $900 a year.
. One-half of them have dependents. They must take
Factory workers’ weekly earnings parallel the rising cost of = care of their families. Teachers are not leaving schools
a e .
food. Teachers’ salaries do not. because they wish to, but because they have to. Unless
| SS salaries are increased, teachers will be forced to leave
Percent in much larger numbers next year.
of Increase -
| BOC Ss ee. RE IB OS ME ok ON
ORR SOIR Sy CUS RN REN SORE SR INY CSSR Re R Sa SS e °
| 20 a Be ee The Lack of Teachers Is Nationwide
SESE ee ee PCO IR CS C'S . .
| | rrrrrr—rs—i‘( «zzz Oe An acute shortage of teachers now exists. Reports
a SES eae oe ED Ce ee RR OS ELOY ENS "ati ; : t1
RO ee eS to the National Education Association from 34 states
SS TAY See Seem ER SG TO ts 1
| 2s a oe Ree show that the need for rural elementary teachers is
ESCO EES OES ae i eo ee EDEN SS 080° SUN ZS : rer ; 1
Oe Soe “# Se most urgent. This deficiency 1s now extending to the
ELS TE RE ORME SIR, SIRS 1: °
PS USS ee eee eee e pe BOGS high schools. °
Pee ee a SS SSE SS “T° . . .
oe ee ee ee SOS BOC DSS. The following excerpts trom typical news stories
SSO I OS lc Nees F: YES SSE . 5 7 :
| 20Re ee te ered describe the problem school boards are facing:
Se ee ee ee CoN . . On: .
OO Georgia.—* More than 1,000 school teachers in Geor-
OO Sy ¥ 5j
OSC ee ee ee ge 8 gia have resigned since July 1. Most of those resign-
Se ee Ne ey MON ment or in private industry. The state will have to raise
iOS Oe Y Se Oe Se : . .
Se NS sg pe Ss Sag es its teacher salary scale . . . to compete with salaries
Baa SE Se RS BR es cr RS A Md . . 7 :
ec fo OS SERS Foe Ne in private fields.”— Associated Pr ESS, September 4,
we BIS a RCE OR, RE CRD sine SORIA ere NH RRS Mees > Seen re.
| 10 pte Woke fe tes 1941.
Poot Weekly J ee, , . . we ; ,
ec Earnings fo mg Peng oe Bae Kansas, Sed JN k County.—‘Selective service and
Be oT EN ge ae RE SRE SES gM EGE eo : iti : :
SS Pe os eee HEELERS ay national defense activities have combined to bring about
SSS eee es eso Mast of Faod: 7 Cah Se ~ ;
Oe Sic uence? Soe ee an almost 50 per cent change in the personnel of the
| 2 eee Jee eer” a ee eae . : :
So ee _ oe rural teaching staff in Sedgwick County, Adel F.
ee te amass ci |
Se ge et cn een Throckmorton, superintendent of public instruction, an-
*Reprinted at the request of the National Education
August March March October Association from a folder prepared by the National Commission
ee ee ee for the Defense of Democracy through Education.
98 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

|
|
|
| .

nounced Monday. Throckmorton said that of 262 Maryland, Prince Georges County—°A dithculty
public school teachers and administrators in the county experienced by the school board has been the increasing
| 119 are in their present positions for the first tine number of vacancies in the faculties of county schools.
| this year.""—W’ichita Beacon, October 20, 1941. Out of a staff of 553 teachers, 110 have resigned since
| . last July 1. County Superintendent Orem said he ex-

Why the Shortage Is Serious pects the vacancies to reach 40 per cent of the staff

The increasing flow of teachers into better paid oc- by the end of the year. Maryland law makes 1¢ difficult

cupations threatens the quality of educational oppor- to find teachers with the necessary qualifications, and
tunity because these teachers cannot be replaced by therefore many of the newly hired teachers have been —

adequately trained persons. Already standards are be- qualified as substitutes, the report added.”—W ashing-

ing lowered by the granting of “special certificates.” ton Star, November 28, 1941.

The following excerpts from the news show what is It is estimated that between 5,000 and 10,000 emer-
| happening: gency certificates will be granted during the coming
, Minnesota-—‘The State Department of Education — year, permitting teachers to enter the profession at

has asked the attorney general if it may relax regula- lowered standards. For 1941-42, Louisiana expects to

tions for renewing the certificates of rural teachers to — grant 1,000 emergency teaching certificates ; Tennessee,
} avert an anticipated shortage of teachers in the rural 300; Kentucky, 250; Georgia and Virginia, 200 each;
| districts .. . The report indicated that the teacher turn- Nebraska, 100. Other states must meet the shortage
| over in ungraded elementary schools ranges from 45 of trained teachers in a similar makeshift manner un-
to 50 per cent. A shortage is threatened because teach- less salaries are raised.

ers have resigned to take jobs in private industries and There is little hope of increasing the supply of teach-
| under the defense program. ers from teacher-training institutions. Enrollments in
: “The answer to this problem is not in relaxing reg- these schools have declined throughout the United
: ulations to lower teacher standards .. . It is rather in States an average of 11 per cent. The greatest decline
, paying adequate salaries to rural teachers.”—S?t. Paul for the current year is reported in Alabama, with a
| Dispatch, September 29, 1941 (editorial. ) (Continued on page 105)
|
The NEA and the NAM’
|
| HE National Association of Manufacturers has needs and financial requirements,

! T passes two resolutions of great significance to Be It Resolved, That the administration and con-
: education. This action should encourage school — duct of public education is an essential public service ;
people everywhere. Following a conference on No- _ that its reasonable financial support constitutes a nec-
| vember 11 between the NEA Commission on the De- essary claim upon our American Society to which other
fense of Democracy thru Education and the NAM public services of lesser value should be subordinated.
, Committee on Educational Cooperation, the NAM at National Education Associetion
its convention in New York City on December 5 WHEREAS, There has been a widespread controversy
unanimously adopted the following resolutions: in the press and elsewhere concerning the loyalty of
WuHueEreas, The essence of a system of popular self- teachers to American traditions, and

government is the ability of the electorate to deal in- WHEREAS, The resolutions enacted by the National
telligently with the public issues submitted to it for | Education Association on June 30, 1941, have con-

decision, and to select those who are to represent it firmed the long-standing belief of industry in the true

in public affairs with wisdom and sound judgment, |= Americanism of the overwhelming majority of Amer-

and ican teachers and have indicated that destructive intent

Wuereas, The National Association of Manufac- can be attributed to a relatively small minority, and

| turers consistently has believed that this requires a WuHereas, The recent publications of the Educational

system of public education which will enable the Policies Commission of the National Education As-

citizen of our republic to receive the education which sociation suggest the desirability of closer mutual un-

will enable him to make his maximum contribution to —_ derstanding between educators and other groups which

| society and which society can afford to provide, and ultimately must decide the nation’s educational policies,
, Wuereas, The increasing devotion of public funds therefore

| to national defense purposes will and should require Be [It Resolved, That the National Association of

| * governmental economy in other directions and may Manufacturers welcomes the expressed desire of the Na-

| presage inadequate consideration of our educational tional Education Association for a more adequate ex-

3 _—______ change of viewpoint between industry and education,

*Reprinted at the request of the National Education As- and reconiunends to its members that every channel of

sociation from the Journal of the National Education Associa- | ; . oye °
tion, January, 1942. constructive cooperation be utilized.

FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 99

The Alabama State Association for Health, Physical Educa- R. Eastwood, Purdue University ; Mr. and Mrs. R. W. Webster
tion, and Recreation has recently issued an excellent statement and Danny Webster, University of West Virginia; Cara B. |
of suggested duties for state association officers. The Na- Lehmann, Marshall, Texas; Mildred R. Lee, Belleville, N. J.;
tional Office has secured the privilege of copying these duties, Merrill Dawson, Columbus, Ohio; William L. Hughes,
and will send copies to all state associations within the next Teachers College, Columbia University; E. Dana Caulkins,
few weeks. Additional copies may be secured from the Na- White Plains, New York; Helen P. Olmstead, Muskogee, |
tional Office by any interested member of the Association. Oklahoma; Harold D. Meyer, Chapel Hill, North Carolina: |
Suggestions for revision and improvement of this compilation Eleanore Aldworth, West Chester, Pa.; Rosabel Burch, Girl |
will be welcomed. Scouts, Inc.. New York; E. B. DeGroot, Jr., Riverside, Cali- |

* * * fornia; Mrs. LuVerne Crabtree Walker, Washington; Sally !

Frank J. Beier, Associate Convention Manager for the New Jeffries, U. S. Office of Indian Affairs; Anna Hiss, University |
Orleans meeting, is planning an extensive educational exhibit. of Texas; H. F. Kilander, Panzer College; Ruth Elliott and |
Sections and other groups wishing to participate in this Elizabeth Beall, Wellesley College; Albert Whitney, New |
exhibit are urged to write to Mr. Beier at 703 Carondelet York City; Frances Knight, College Park, Maryland; Thelma |
Street, New Orleans, Louisiana, for complete details. Suggett Jones, Arlington, Virginia; David Segel, U. S. Office |

es * ¢& of Education; Lieut. John Nixon, Pomona, California; and |

President Anne Schley Duggan announces the appointment Edna Jane Nesbitt, Richmond, Virginia. .
of the following committees from the New Orleans schools ._* * |
to assist with local details for the 1942 convention: Publicity, Bess Exton, Assistant in Health Education, announces the |
Miss Ray Abrams, Maybin Postgraduate School, chairman; recent compilation of two timely bibliographies : :
Motion Pictures and Loudspeakers, J. A. Rousseau, Washing- 1. Recent Low-Cost Publications on Nutrition. |
ton School; Educational Exhibits, Miss L. Honold, Behrman 2. Dental Health Education—references from periodical lit-
High School; Demonstrations, Mrs. V. A. Rodick, Wright erature, 1936-1942.

High School; Showboat, Mrs. Alma Peterson, Administration + * * :
Office; Dance, Rene Louapre, Administration Office; Social, In response to a number of requests, the Association Office |
Jane P. Walsh, McDonogh High School; Registration, Thomas has compiled a brief bibliography of articles from the |
Green, White High School ; Information, Miss R. D. Mitchell, JOURNAL dealing with physical education and national de-
Wright High School; Hospitality, Miss G. E. Muller, Allen fense. Copies of this bibliography are available on request to
High School; Commercial Exhibits, Joseph Kluchin, Frantz the Office.
School; Banquet, Violett O'Reilly, Rabouin School; Ushers, * * & |
R. Rollen Ary, Fortier High School; Time, Order, Attend- Bess Exton recently attended a meeting of the State-Wide
ance, Mrs. D. M. Toledano, Allen High School; Transporta- Games Committee in Baltimore, Maryland, and participated in
tion and Visitation, J. Y. Duncan, Peters High School. a discussion of the topic, “What Can We as Teachers in our

* * & Present Situation Do to Improve the Health Status of Our

Additional student memberships have been received from the Pupils?” Thomas C. Ferguson of the Maryland State De-
University of Connecticut, University of Maryland (women’s partment of Public Instruction presided at the meeting, and
department 100 per cent), and the University of Washington. other Participants included T. G. Pullen, Jr., Assistant State
Leonard Larson is carrying on a campaign for student mem- Superintendent ; Mark McCloskey, Federal Security Agency ;
bers at Springfield College, and hopes to be able to report Isaac S. George, Executive Director of the Maryland Council
100 per cent enrollment at an early date. of Defense; L. R. Burnett, Regional Director, Division of

A. O. Anderson and Frances Fuller are working to promote Physical Fitness; and several county superintendents of schools.
national memberships in the state of Missouri. Several other _* *
national membership drives are getting under way in all parts New state association presidents have been reported from
of the country. three states since the publication of the complete list in the

+ * * January JourNAL. The new presidents are:
Beginning with the January issue of the JOURNAL, the Maine: Ernest Scribner, Dover-Foxcroft.
Association engaged the services of the Carroll Press of Missouri : Rosina Koetting.
Columbus, Ohio, as printer for the Association publications. New Mexico: George Petrolonus, Espanola.
It seems fitting at this time to say a word of praise for the ._ * *
fine cooperation which the Association has always received N. P. Neilson, Executive-Secretary, contributes the following
from its former printer, the Ann Arbor Press. Almost from items of interest on the national defense program:

. the first issue of the JournaL, the Ann Arbor Press has Major General John F. Oryan, New York State Director
handled the Association’s printing requirements, and our rela- of Civilian Defense, formerly a member of the 1916 New
tions with them have always been most cordial. We hope York State Physical Training Commission, wrote in a recent
that we may look forward to equally fine and friendly service letter to Dr. Hiram A. Jones: “Intelligent and continued train-
in our new affiliation with the Carroll. Press, and we are glad ing under experienced leadership is the major element in the
to congratulate them on their good work with the first number attainment of physical fitness. Boxers, field and track men
to issue from their press. do not train themselves. They employ experts and follow

* * * their instructions and schedules. The youth of our schools

Visitors to the Association Office in the past six months should take every advantage of the experience of their physical
have included: Charles W. Davis, Berkeley, California; Theo- education instructors. Physical training is a process that re-
dora Wiesner, University of Chicago; Ralph W. Morrison and quires time for the attainment of its ends, but its rewards are
Betty Morrison, Washington, D. C.; Martha Driver, Arlington, definite, tangible, and valuable. Its beneficiaries stand ready
Virginia; R. N. Hoskins, University of Virginia; Jessie Garri- for effective action where physical fitness is an essential
son, Alabama State Education Department ;. H. Thayer Heaton. qualification. Military drill is not physical training except in a
New York; G. M. Gloss, Louisiana State University; Floyd minor and collateral way. Its purposes embrace other ob-

_ 100 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION |

|
jectives. It is not a substitute for physical training under the W
supervision of qualified instructors.” - Two MeGRA “HILL
At the request of Paul V. McNutt, Federal Security Ad-
ministrator, John W. Studebaker, United States Commissioner BOOKS of UNUSUAL
| of Education, has organized “The Office of Education War-
time Commission.” The object is (1) to facilitate the ad-
| justment of educational agencies to war needs, (2) to inform INTEREST
government agencies directly responsible for the war effort | ,
concerning the services schools and colleges can render, and TEXTBOOK OF HEALTHFUL LIVING
) to determine. the possible effects upon schools and colleges By Haroun S. Dient, M.D., Professor of Pre-
of proposed policies and programs ot these government agencies. ventive Medicine and Public Health and Dean ©
W ithin the framework of this wartime commission, two divi- of the Medical Sciences, University of Minnesota.
sional committees will operate, one on state and local school Second edition. 634 pages, 6x9. $2.50.
: administration under the chairmanship of Willard E. Givens of
the National Education Association, and the other on higher The second edition of this remarkably successful
| education under the chairmanship of George F. Zook of the text has been adopted by over 160 colleges and
| American Council on Education. . ws S . hi di d
: The National Conference of College and University Presi- universities. upporting this outstan ing recor
| dents on Higher Education and the War met in Baltimore, of distribution and use is the enthusiastic endorse-
| January 3 and 4, 1942, Approximately 1,000 persons attended ment which the book has received from teachers
! the Conference. Resolutions and recommendations were . h definitel blishi
: adopted relating to allocations of total man power, accelera- and reviewers every W ere, definitely esta ishing
! tion of educational programs, exchange of information, credit it as one of the leading texts on the subject.
| for military service, health, and military service. The state-
! ment on health reads: “Individual health is essential to na- .
| tional efficiency and to maximum war effort. Almost one Typical Comments
| million young men have been rejected for military service be- “In this book you have done an excellent job aid, I think,
cause of inability to meet minimum military standards of h d he best book of its kind that I h
| physical fitness. Therefore, it is recommended that all col- ave turne out the best of its kind that ave
| leges and universities take such steps as will be necessary to seen. oo,
| bring each individual student to his highest possible level of Professor Ira V. Hiscock, Yale University
physical fitness. The Printed proceedings of they omerence; “The revision should make the book very much more
including ail addresses to the general sessions, wi issu serviceable as a text, although I thought the first edition
as soon as possible, and will be on sale at the offices of the . . . er
American Council on Education, 744 Jackson Place, Wash- was in many essential respects the best of its kind.
ington, D. C. , Prof. H. L. MARSHALL, University of Utah
“This book is thoroughly practical and is ideal for use
, i connection with courses in Human Physiology .. .
| highly recommended as a text for colleges and univer-
| sities.”
PHYSICAL THERAPY WooprurF C. Apams, in Public Health Reviews
| Siy Months’ Emergency Course
| Beainning March 2. 1942 CHAMPIONSHIP TECHNIQUE
| TE! , IN TRACK AND FIELD
: Sponsored by Harvard Medical School By Dean B. Cromwe tt, Head Track and Field
. Courses for Graduates, and Boston Univer- Coach, University of Southern California. In
collaboration with Ar Wesson. Whittlesey House
sity Sargent College of Physical Education Sports Series. 315 pages, 6x9. $3.00.
: FEE—$200.00 In this distinctive book the foremost track and field coach
| . in America explains in great detail and with concrete
| Open only to those. Oi asatele, to enter Government examples the best methods of developing individual ath-
| ; letic styles. In addition to describing the technique of
ited school of physical education or two years (60 semes- record-breaking and important championships.
ter hours) of college training which has included courses 4,
in biology and physics. The author tells how to recognize in the young Fresh-
| man a potential pole vaulter, distance runner, sprinter,
| Graduates of above course will be eligible for Govern- high jumper or weight thrower; how to train gradually
| ment appointment to new rating of “Apprentice Physi- so as to have the athlete in best form at the time of com-
| otherapy Aide” for a six months’ period of training in a petition, and, in a province where he has been especially
Government hospital at a salary of $1,440.00, after which successful, how to put the competitor’s mind in the right
period those successfully completing the apprenticeship mood to assure his best results.
course will be granted certificates of graduation and be-
| come eligible for appointment of “Physiotherapy Aide” Send for copies on approval
| at a salary of $1,800.00. f P PP
Apply to Assistant Dean. Courses for Graduates MeGRAW-HILL
Harv ’
ard Medical School, Boston. Massachusetts BOOK COMP ANY. Ine.
330 West 42nd Street New York, N. Y.
FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 101

Pf few arrows by using this system. This rack is practical
ee ” during daily use in spring and fall, and for winter sto
How We Do lt Moth balls in the trough will discourage moths and mice
When fastening such racks to walls, it may be nece
to use either expansion shields for small lag bolts or t
bolts. If a plaster wall is encountered, a hole can be d
. through and toggle bolts used. In a solid wall, where a
Care of Small Equipment drill must first be used to create an opening, an expat
G OMETIMES we find it quite necessary to use every inch shield to carry a small-sized lag may have to be used.
of available space for various pieces of equipment. Often- We have used these racks for about two years and nov
. times we are placed upon our own resources to plan the mak- wonder how we got along without them. If you try them,
ing of usable and suitable racks and cupbuards. This may be will like them too.

necessary from two standpoints; finances at hand and the RutH M. Hawkins
space to be used. Some equipment is easily lost if not kept Roslyn High School
_under lock and key. Roslyn Heights, New Ye

Most of our small seasonal equipment in daily use is kept

in a small office 812’ square. The wall rack for table tennis All School Playday
| paddles and tennis and badminton racquets is made from clear , , for Playday?” That's th
soft pine; one board 934” wide and 3’ 6” long will suffice “LY AVE you signed up for Playday: _ vnats the
for the placing of braced holders for 10 paddles, 12 badminton of the day for Horace Mann J unto High stu
racquets, and 16 tennis racquets. The cupboard is made of around the first of May each year, for it is an all-se
. 5-ply wood throughout. The space for from 20 to 30 Victrola event, and out of the 600 students in school only 25 o
records measures only 15” long. The door which drops open fail to sign Up. . .
is 3’ long. The height overall is 4’. The open center section Playday is organized by the S tudent Council and ru
holds small Kraft Cheese boxes containing checkers, dominoes, members of the boys and girls Leaders Clubs. . By ¢
marbles, jacks, sticks, and such games as cards, puzzles, bean this the responsibility of organization and administratic
bags, and so forth. Paddle tennis nets and posts, badminton ot awed the oa ieation one department. About one i
sets, shuttles, tennis balls, and the like are also kept here. - The Student Council meets with the physical educator
structors and carefully chooses games that are suitable

a > Aetee—egs mixed groups to play. All of these games are then revi

ae eee in gym classes so there is no question as to how to play t

_ Spee | = — ss Last year the games, nine in all, were divided into t

ae Bites Y, Ny 2 » 7 groups of three games each. In Group One were put

‘ee | ; f \in gressive dodgeball, black and white, and three deep. F

"| —-- ( i | pom-pullaway, bat ball, and circle dodgeball were include
y k&. \ the second group, while jump the shot, steal the bacon,

y, re 5 \ fe \ an object relay made up Group Three.
ke : np a ©. Ae NN During homeroom period, each council representative
. _ % we. ae / * - plains the grouping of games to the students, and pass
b . Nt? A ' {| ads | mimeographed paper around so each student can sign up
Bees, . F i hs | ioe the group he chooses. Then the Student Council Ger
Saas oJ 7 eye , Affairs Committee places each student in a group, being
es Benin 'p | ot ee 4 | Kees. to have half boys and half girls, and to see that there
F pe Sy students from every grade in each group. Last year there '
“ay + ae ? nineteen groups of games with about thirty players in
ee aa > group, two mixed volleyball games, and four sets of m
SIO es >= doubles in tennis going on at the same time. The boys
a . girls who played tennis and volleyball were voted on by

students in their homerooms.

On a wall of the basket locker room is placed an arrow _The entire playground, a space 320 by 220 feet squar
rack. This is made of 5-ply wood, 5” wide for the bottom of divided into playing areas 50 feet square, according to
the trough and with the rack above containing the holes. The numer of play groups. The playground caretakers

, . , : ully mark and number the entire field_the morning of pla:
pieces which hold the rack to the wall are of soft pine. The Facl '§ assigned . d he
two rows of holes are 44” in diameter. We number all arrows ; ach group 1s assigned a mecting room ang a number
in two places with India ink. The leaders check the numbers responding: to the number or the playing area it uses or
of the arrows used by members of the class. We lose very preyeroun® The position each group on the field is

signed according to the order in which each group leave:
building. This avoids any confusion going from the buildii
- the playground.
aa » ey The day before Playday, the Council sends a_ bulleti
aes . ‘Lae each group in the homerooms explaining exactly what
Pe | ai ‘rroup does and wl . TT in 1 ;
2 & Pal eae group does and where it goes. he bulletin is carefully
‘a ) ; Ss m3 +3 plained to the students, thus avoiding any confusion ;
oy : mn ay a Ps ft $ what to do or where to go.

| ) iby bi “4°32 At two o'clock the bell rings for all students to go to
ie | f We AH eee assigned rooms. The leader then appoints captains to cl
(a : | == eam teams for all games, and completely organizes all three g
ot BS : "y Te in her group. The leader also sees that all equipment is it
R i aii eA si — — room befure she leaves for the playground Then the g:
= TY | | ‘ oF: pass from the building, floor by floor, to. the section ot

. i — a playground that 1s marked off and numbered for them.
= e- S ia - The groups play each game about fifteen minutes. E
: a ‘ I ment is interchanged among neighboring groups. The:
; entire student hody assembles on the bleachers to watct
102 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCA

f
Well-known educators say: “They look to you
“Girls have often suffered physical and mental harm —
because they have not learned in advance the nature ° n 44
and hygiene of menstruation. Here is an opportunity ¢ h f
for the schools to perform a very real and vital service or stra Ig t ac Ss
to society.”
Grateful mothers say: ‘ ‘a.
“We are indebted to the teachers who give our daugh- , Mi ie 2
ters wholesome, accurate information on a subject ” ae Oh is Nee ‘
which most of us cannot explain adequately.” a —
. eo ee 3 LIOFF 7”
Every term, more and more teachers are awakened | e ties Ae Tae Vhs V, TZ
to the need for menstrual education in the school sys- | en, Ae f
tem. No matter what you teach— Physical Education, " OS RR Bcc. |
English, Home Economics, Mathematics, or Hygiene e} : . a a ‘tm, *
—you are almost certain to be faced with questions , x ; Sue Nie |
about menstruation from your girls. — x , Sane a
, The Modess Program of Menstrual Education will =— at WB =
help you answer their questions easily and naturally. , — eR,
It was planned and written with the advice and assist- Gicgs as
ance of both teachers and doctors. Teachers who have : i a
used it sum it up this way: - al
a “a eS Aa ‘ . A ™%)
‘The Modess Program of wo | ~ ,
4 +4 its rest e
Menstrual Education recognizes a _. «2
e e “a | ‘i ] ai ee e)
definite need—and fills it!
lies hE —
Fer younger girls: “Nancy’s Biggest sss bee gs} e* ) eS SHas,
Day at Camp” is a new and modern at Com P hee | Be Rk IEEE ~~
version of the simple facts of menstru- F & ae. gee
ation. The story is told in a way that 4 4 dé. uses 4 Fe Dee PO Le
young girls like to read—and it has 3 f RO ait sa ate is | sa
| been praised highly by the many “+p, an sie Aas Os a ee LP a i
' teachers who have used it. | Maer " | Me oo
“Ce aes : ane. , a : ray os « ‘ e - 4
For older giris: “The Periodic Cycle” fe ‘* ij : se ee Ps a
explains menstruation in a more adult eg ‘\ é ! ets a at ee, = f
and scientifically detailed manner. Yet Sey , , , fe f
it is written very simply and is easy REE PES , @ , ae
for the high school girl to understand. \ rd es 7 rg Pius:
, With it, use the anatomy charts de- _ ae P : és is
| seribed below. | { He ie ee | he
Six Menstrual Anatomy Charts ES oF RRR Mat «
which provide illustrative mate; PY
rial for the text of “The Periodic = ||; >= yy >
Cycle.” They are considered in- =e > \ ed he
valuableby theteacherswhohave a= | | = -
_ taught menstrual facts to girlsof =|" i : ALL THIS MATERIAL IS FREE=MAIL THIS COUPON
| high school age. SME asa TN
The Personal Products Corp., Dept. B-29, Milltown, New Jersey
For Studants: Please send me; he Periodi For Teachers : \ae Viease pend me
Now — these new Teaching Outlines: Cycle,” am _e ° _ Charts, (Distribution of the charts
. : of “N ’s Bi t is limited to t be
| Teachers who have used the Modess teaching aids ++ -Camp.” mney eee Feriodic Cycle” in their classes. )
_— llectively for their own girls, have collaborated in the | Weme.....cccsssssssesseseessssssstsstisisttvevisnsinsssssscsse so
| Preparation of these two Teathing Outlines. One is for Address
use in preparing young girls to meet their first men- daQeAs eee eee ee ete tee et ne tte
strual experience. The other is designed for presenting onan a REET SPT
fundamental, scientific facts of menstruation to girls Order a0 many copies Oe beeen te bene ;
of high school age.
FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 103

championship baseball game between the leading homerooms. pulsory; if the school does not furnish towels, what arrange-
The students who cannot participate in games because of ments will you make to be certain each has a towel? Have
physical disabilities sit on the bleachers in the shade and watch your answers to questions such ag these and stick to them! Ii
the others, or have some small responsibility to keep them you find you are doing the wrong thing, then change, but not
occupied. Those who fail to sign up at all stay in the build- until. If you do, you are in for trouble.
ing to study. When people deal with classes of the size such as ours, the
Playday at Horace Mann, mixed classes in dancing, bad- students must know what to expect about certain things if you
minton, and mixers after school have proved to us that a co- expect to be free from complaining and useless questioning.
educational program is a great help in improving the social I have always had them dress, even when excused from class
attitude of boys and girls. activity. Two things are responsible for my decision; (1) this
_ was the rule at my preparatory school, (2) I discovered it
ELEANOR K. THOMPSON eliminated 95 per cent of excuses “just because I don't feel
Horace Mann Junior High School like playing” or “I need the time to study.” Before I came
West Allis, Wssconsin here this was not true, and I found many wandering into the
gym with the intention of sitting out because “I don’t feel like
The First Year of Teaching playing.” Now they know what to expect and act accordingly.
| Their actions are governed by yours.
4 OW clear in my mind is the first day (week and month) In teaching a game, don’t take for granted that they know
of my teaching. I recall also that I chanced upon an about it; start at the ground and go up from there. (That is.
article written for this same JOURNAL on this same subject— any team game.) Don’t hesitate to drill on the simplest skills
and how helpful it was! So I am writing my own ver- and fundamentals. I made this mistake! No matter how
sion now with the hope that it, too, may be of help to others. conscientious you may be in teaching, nine out of ten are apt
I was “scared stiff.” At the time I didn’t call it that, but to forget the game by next year. That isn’t your fault (or
now I know that really was the truth. And who wouldn’t be? shouldn’t be). Be happy the tenth one remembered.
Going into a completely strange town, knowing no one, to a You must completely forget how near your own age some
school about which I knew nothing, and never having taught of the students are—if you have high school. It is true you
in high school before. I really had a right to be the tiniest bit are only a few years older than the seniors, but forget it; you
frightened. Everyone said, “Oh, you'll make out all right; = are the teacher. You can be a real friend to them and have |
remember you are king of all you survey,” and so on; but = great fun without letting them feel you are “just one of the |
these reassurances didn’t help much. I have talked to teachers gang.”
who have taught in more than one school; all have admitted Now, about your own class suit. This is my own opinion and
they were just as nervous over the second place as the first! So I know it is not shared by all: no teacher should require her
there you are! students to change for class 1f she is unwilling to do so herself.
First, do make some definite plans as to what you'd like to They resent it, and to my mind, justly so. Just once have |
do while you are getting acquainted; both in class as a “starter” done that—I forgot to bring a blouse to wear under my tunic
and outside of class. Even if you never use it, your mind will so kept on the one I had worn to school. Do you think they
have something definite upon which to dwell until you find didn’t notice? The first thing they ask if I appear without my |
exactly what the setup is. Have several simple games ready tunic is, “Don’t we dress to-day ?”
that won't take much explanation and aren’t too strenuous. Don’t feel too badly when you hear such things as these:
Even seniors in high school like to play some of the simpler “Do we have to play this to-day?” “What good does this do
games occasionally. (Remember, they aren't likely to have us?” “Do we have to get dressed to-day?” “What are we going
suits for several days.) to play to-day?” “Miss So-and-so didn’t do that last year.”
Under no conditions plan your work day by day; it must “What! Gym again.” Remember that everyone doesn’t like
be done at least a week in advance. Suppose you need a sub- activity as much as you and I. We can’t expect all to b
stitute unexpectedly—it does happen. One of the criticisms wholehearted enthusiasts. These questions will come from only
directed against physical education teachers is that they plan a few, and usually the same few all the time. If you hear |
their work on the way to school. This may be true of a very them from several and different ones and frequently; then it
few who do not have a keen interest in the work and students, 1s time something is done. Jou do it! Investigate your class
but do not let it be said of you! management and activity; make sure you are not directly re-
Make up your mind before school starts what you are going sponsible for the comments. I’m sure you won't be.
to do about your class management. How many times is each Here’s wishing you all a successful and happy “first year”
. pupil to be excused from class each month; is each to dress of teaching.
when she is excused; for what reasons may she be excused Louise RABNER
from dressing; can she study if excused; what will you do with Potsdam High School
girls who‘ forget to bring their suits; will showers be com- Potsdam, New York
“«“<gG OQoOoD MORNIN G”
Our ever popular dance manual “GOOD MORNING” records, as they compose an_ almost
is now supplemented by fourteen Early American Dance indispensable teaching aid and add to the
Records, recorded (with and without calls) by Henry Ford’s enjoyment of the well-established class.
old-time dance orchestra. Four of these have been released
since December 1941, and more new Records will be Henry Ford
announced shortly. They are constantly in demand by Dearborn, Nichigen.
clubs, schools, service centers, and recreation groups. Chosen | wp:
from the “GOOD MORNING?” book for their rhythm and Early American ‘Dance Records your catalog listing
simplicity, they include a variety of quadrilles, circles, couple NAM oo ooccccccccccceeceesees eee eee oboe so
dances, and singing calls. Street Address ooo cccccccscsssssssssesanenarcensuceceecteeesecsescee
Be sure to fill out the following blank for a listing of these Sr 5 nO | (On
104 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

to Know--- ~<a)
| ~e Se
N EGRO History Week will be celebrated from February 8 “ : x See
: to 15, the seventeenth annual week of this kind. ‘This | ies \"
- effort is projected,” writes Carter G. Woodson, Director of ‘ a:
| The Journal of Negro History, “on the principle that there 1s ‘
| in the past of one race a record just as commendable as that of ;
others. The Negro is as human as other members of the fam-
| ily of mankind. When encouraged he advances, and when | Bi A i h @ t € S F 0 0 t C 0 n t ro |
handicapped he falls behind.”

Posters and literature pertinent to the celebration will be aes with B L T & " C 0 POWDER
sent free of charge by the Association for the Study of Negro An effective fungicide must work quickly, and one
Life and History, 1538 Ninth Street, Washington, D. C. main reason why Alta-Co is the choice of leading

| * * * schools and universities is its ability to kill Ath-
| T HE Seventh Annual Health Education Conference at lete’s Foot fungi in 60 seconds or less by test.
Panzer College, East Orange, New Jersey, will be held on Other Alta-Co Advantages: .
| Saturday, March 14, it has been announced by Dean H. F. * It’s non-irritating to skin, harmless to towels.
Kilander. * Remains stable in solution.
| * * * * Can be tested quickly and accurately by anyone using
| . . . Alta-Co Tester.
N afternoon discussion group at the San Francisco con- We z 7 h Athiete’s Foot. | rn
| A vention of the American Association of School Admin- deeb oor > Teicst interuation 00 tha Guatech OF this maiaus:,
| istrators on February 25 will be given to “Practical Pro- infection.
| cedures for Improving Health Guidance and Health Educa- °r0 ” LS
tion.” The Chairman is Charles C. Wilson of Teachers Col- THE me 2
lege, Columbia University; presiding will be George D. Stod- D O f G E a | C O
dard of the State University of Iowa. The speakers will be C.B. ie La, “
Agnes Fay Morgan, Jack Hudspeth, Anne Schley Duggan, and - nu!
C. Morley Sellery. Discussion will be led by Homer W. An- WESTPORT |DoLtce| CONN.
derson, Edna W. Bailey, and Charles A. Dukes.
* * &
BoMsBs or no bombs, the Secondary-School Principals will M M
meet, according to an announcement made by the Associa- .
tion, following the plans for their annual winter convention. 7 942 Summer Session
San Francisco is the convention city, February 21-25 the dates.
“The Schools Carry On” will be the appropriate theme. . UNIVER SITY
. °
Deland Demo of MICHIGAN
(Continued from page 99)
. . Six- and eight-week courses starting June 29
drop of 29 per cent; Minnesota experienced a loss of
20 per cent, Montana of 18 per cent, Indiana and North ;
_ Dakota, of 15 per cent. Graduate sequences in health, physical educa-
, tion, and recreation leading to degrees of Mas-
! What Can Be Done ter of Arts, Master of Science, Doctor of
: . , , Education, and Doctor of Philosophy.
The times permit more generous financial support
' Of schools. Incomes in general are rising faster than OT Schoo! :
| Vi ' . Cognate courses are available in the Schoo
re cost of living. Property is worth more. Tax de of Public Health. The Department of Phy-
Inquency 1S less. - . siology will offer courses in the Physiology
| The’ increase in cost of military defense need not, of Exercise designed for physical education
must not, crush the schools. It is the responsibility of graduate students.
_ school boards to see that it does not do so. They
must appeal to communities and legislatures for in- Special courses in physical education and recreation
| creased funds. adapted to the war emergency.

Already, far-sighted boards of education are meeting Also undergraduate, | acti ty ose ant. on request.
this challenge. In several large cities a 10 per cent
“cost-of-living-bonus” has been added to existing sal- J. B. EDMONSON, Dean, SCHOOL OF EDUCATION
aries. Higher salary schedules have been adopted in UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, ANN ARBOR, MICH.
some school systems. All school boards are urged to M
take action of this kind now. It is their responsibility M ——]—$__ $$
FEBRUARY, 1942. VOLUME 13, NO. 2 105

to strengthen the schools as the bulwark of American 20. Motor Boating—Charles F. Chapman, 572 Madison Ave
—By the National Commission for the De- nue, N.Y.C.
| cemocracy By th Theoneh Edueation. National Ed 21. National Public Links—William F. Gordon, Marble Hall
ense ) emocracy irough Itducation. National Iedu- Golf Course, R.D. No. 2, Conshohocken, Pa.
cation Association. 22. Negro In Sports—Edwin B. Henderson, Washington,
D.C.
, 23. Non-Competitive Outdoor Activities—Ed. N. Decker,
e e 220 E. 42nd Street, New York City.
The p physical Fitness p rogram 24. Paddle Ball—Frank Peer Beal, Pres., U. S. Paddle
(Continued ; 73) Tennis Association, 312 E. 30th Street, New York City.
. Continued from page /. . 25. Paddle Tennis—Frank Peer Beal, Pres.. U. S. Paddle

4. Baseball--—Raymond Dumont, President, National Semi- Tennis Association, 312 E. 30th St., New York City.

Pro Baseball Congress, P.O. Box 2202, Wichita, Kansas ; C. O. 26. Rifle Shooting—C. B. Lister, Secy-Treas., National Rifle

Brown, President, American Baseball Inc., 3622 Zumstein Ave., Association of America, 1600 Rhode Island Ave., Washington,

Apt. 400 k, Cincinnati, Ohio; Homer Chilleaux, American D.C.

Legion, Indianapolis, Ind. 27. Roller Skating—James Morton, 210 South Street, N.Y.C.
. 5. Bicycling—Dr. Gradyon McK. Powell, League of Ameri- 28. Skiing—Roger Langley, Barre, Massachusetts.

can Wheelmen, Inc.. 59 E. Madison St., Chicago, Illinois. 29. Softball—-M. J. Pauley, Exec.-Secy., Amateur Softball

6. Billiards—Charles C. Peterson, 629 S. Wabash Ave.. Association of America, 2376 E. 71st St., Chicago, IH.: Wilbur
Chicago, IIlinois. E. Landis, Jr., Pres., Amateur Softball Association of America.

7. Bowling—Ralph M. Voorhees, 623-633 S. Wabash Ave., Briggs Manufacturing Company, Detroit, Michigan.

Chicago, Illinois; Robert W. Mann, 606 S. Spring Ave. La 30. The Sporting Goods Dealer—J. G. Taylor Spink, The
Grange, Illinois. Sporting Goods Dealer, St. Louis, Missouri.

8. Boxing—James Jay Braddock, 7 Central Park West, 31. Swimming—Sam Ingram, Colgate University, Hamilton.
N.Y.C.; Jack Dempsey, 1619 Broadway, N.Y.C.; Spike Webb, N. Y.; Mrs. Hermia Lechner, 927 Carteret Ave., Trenton, N. J.
United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryland. 32. Trapshooting—C. H. Newcomb, Rogers Browne-Lavine |

9. Canoeing—Theo. G. Alteneder, 1217 Spring Garden St., Co., 1528 Walnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Fred Grant, 1510 Hanna Building, 33. Volleyball—Dr. George J. Fisher, Pres., U. S. Volleybal!
Cleveland, Ohio. Association, 2 Park Avenue, New York City.

10. Camping—Robert Lechner, 927 Carteret Avenue, Trenton, 34. Weight-Lifting—Robert Hoffman, 51 N. Broad St.
N. J. York, Pa.

11. Codeball—William E. Code, M.D., 2300 N. Clark Street, 35. Wrestling—Dr. W. Austin Bishop, University of Penn-
Chicago, Illinois. sylvania, Weightman Hall, Philadelphia, Pa.

12. Facilities, Equipment, Supplies—Dr. Frederick W. Lueh- . oe . ge
ring, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa. The diagram of the organization setup indicates the

13. Fencing—William J. Herrmann, 16 S. 10th Street, Phil- various relationships.
adelphia, Pennsylvania. Status of the Program.—A program pamphlet has
wee a fhe Manan prier, Rye. New York; Cynthia been prepared for wide distribution. It recommends, in

esson, Jericho Manor, Jenkintown, Pa. nav .

15. Field and Track—Hon. Eugene C. Bonniewell, 101 Ww. 2, 8eneral way, a broad program and leaves details to
Carpenter Lane, Philadelphia, Pa. states and local communities. It is planned to utilize, *

16. Golf—Jimmie DiAngelo, Secy., Professional Golfers’ As- insofar as possible, all available national, state, and local
sociation, 134 N. 13th St., Philadelphia, Pa.; Fred J. Corcoran, agencies, but there is no intention of establishing stand-
150 Nassau St., New York City; Robert T. Jones, Jr., 14 E. ards or of duplicating in anv fashion th mot ness
Jackson Blvd., Chicago, Illinois: Ed Dudley. Philadelphia tiviti - . 6 “heted hee t © physical ht ;
Country Club, Bala., Pa.; Craig Wood, 14 E. Jackson Blvd., activities now being conducte rough existing agen
Chicago, Illinois. cies. The federal government hopes, however, to imple-

17. Horseshoe Pitching—Harry T. Wooslfield, 734 Nineteenth ment, expand, and give new impetus to present physical
St., N.E., Washington, D.C. _ ; « fitness programs.

New ye ating —Hrving Jaffee, 7272—I12th St., Forest Hills, Unfortunately, publication of the program pamphlet

19. Mini Golf—Frank Peer Beal, Pres, U. S$. Paddle Tenni, has: been delayed because the Government Printing
Association, 312 E. 30th St., New York, N. Y. Office is deluged. Appointments to regional, state, and

DIRECTOR ~ OFFICE OF CIVILIAN DEFENSE
Diagram of Administrative Plon ure. P. D. Recnevelts Aca't par.
(Prepared by Mr. E. A. Geiges)
PITWESS
ur. Jotm B. Kelly .
Wise Alice Mardle, Ase't Dir,
Rr. Oso. Boletron o_—" re. Fussell dete)
SPORTS BOARD ADVISORY BOARD ZXECUTIVE ASSISTANT
Grantiand Rice, oF Polloeten srgettantnoeey b
sxgnam||* Hae =
ai sports astivitios & Recreation , COORDINATORS - an Women COORDINATORS -
Beard. Each regional | | an: Parenteteachers asere ny | | SCMOOLS & CoLleoEs RECRRATION--OUP-
end lecel organize- Am. Legion - V.9.. Or. A. A. Jones ‘ OP-SCHOOL GROUPS
tion should estediteh | | Neti. B41. Asen. Dr. A. S. Duggan STATE 0.0.0. and P. 3. atheveon
@ sports beard as a Industry end Sporte ur. A. B. Pritslarfr STATE PHYSICAL DIRECTORS Cc. 8. Brewor
mit ef this naticnal 0. C. D. Ned. Board — v. &. Srowm
body. Social Agencies Dr. Gs. L. Hughes, J. Dadrosea

U. S. Office of Eduest ion Coneultant CHAIPWAN LOCAL J. &. Sproule

college Faye. Ba. aren, ™: 0.¢.0. COMMITTEE or. we. L. Hughes,

Metl. Collogiste ath. Asen. Conaultant

PITRESS PROGRAM
106 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

local officers has also been slow, because they must be | .
made through specified channels. But the latter is the
_ democratic way. When the pamphlet is published and p |
distributed and appointments are completed, the pro- | I E M
gram should begin to function on a nation-wide basis
and should be in evidence in local communities every- 4 <—, 9
where. The central office now sends weekly bulletins to ef wee f IN G
the Regional Representatives and a monthly report is a KS ; $4:
made to Director LaGuardia. F <a
Individuals seeking help in organizing a local pro- a & Al :
gram should look to Philadelphia where Mr. Kelly has | | | Carry:
established an experimental program under the direc- : a 1, / \ Sat .
tion of Mr. G. H. Heineman. Experience gained here .( _e j Ys; Si h :
' should prove helpful to thousands of communities. “Oy ‘( os —— I,
Difficulties Encountered.—The Civilian Physical Fit- > -N _ - fs
| mess movement has encountered many difficulties from _ Wy at a” (i
the beginning. There was strong opposition from cer- i} CAG EA - .
tain members of the professions. Some honestly feared
. the lowering, 1f not the complete elimination, of stand- C
ards. Various and sundry quacks, cultists, and get- with A R T H | R
fit-quick magicians have proposed all sorts of panaceas. ~
Well meaning but untrained individuals with plenty
of time and * money have clamored for positions in GYM TOWELS AND ROBES
| the orga nization. One serious drawback is the fact that Keep your athletes healthy .. . help them to avoid locker and shower
._ no funds have heen appropriated for this movement. room colds by supplying them with McArthur gym towels and robes’
' Mr. Kelly, a majority of his staff, the Advisory Board. most economical in high schools, colleges and universities throughout
. . the nation. Velva-Terry Robes are the favorite of championship teams.
the Regional, State, and [.ocal Representatives, and — write for complete information!
the Coordinators all are volunteering their services.
The fact that this is a volunteer movement has its GEO. McARTHUR & SONS, BABABOO, WIS.
advantages, however, since it eliminates patronage. Ces
Anyone not closely connected with the situation can-
not realize all the pressures brought to bear from every
quarter on Mr. Kelly, Mr. Geiges, and their co-work- } \ <1 GR \
ers. Under the circumstances, they have done a remark- © \ Cy
| able job. VS,
Forecast for the Future-—Support for the program NOB =n
1s increasing daily. The resolution of the Board of Us AQ AN
Directors of the American Association for Health, Ww \N
Physical Education, and Recreation pledging coopera- 4S ANN
tion was printed in a previous issue of the JOURNAL. see. pacKS.in Vi WaT .
Similar resolutions have recently been adopted by the SL os 1) A, any ae
College Physical Education Association, and the Na- a ogg UM pe, (AV NE a
tional Collegiate Athletic Association. On December “AR Bs a ye
8, the day that war was declared, the Hygiene and
Physical Education Association of the Colleges of the Refresh yourself
City of New York, including four colleges and two high
schools, and representing between thirty and fifty thou-—
sand students, unanimously adopted a ten-point pro-
gram for increased physical fitness to meet the national Pause ---
_ emergency. Countless other institutions, organizations, Go refreshed °
and agencies have inaugurated or are proposing similar
_‘- programs. a
| Early in January, Superintendent Stoddard an- CCH
_ nounced that in the interests of national defense, the
| Philadelphia Board of Education had appropriated tRADE mame
_ $100,000 for a Physical Fitness Program in that city. o
This service will be extended, in this order, to (1) SS a ZF a /
potential draftees, (2) men and women engaged in spe- SS ty eG Ea
cial defense services, such as air raid wardens, (3) == | Xs / z=,
men and women engaged in defense industries. and (4) See
adult citizens generallv.
FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 107

Oe ——— It is the opinion of many, and has been the opini
S of the writer from the beginning, that the Civili
Av Physical Fitness Program offers the greatest oppx
TR tunity in the history of this country to improve the f
G ness of every citizen and to arouse the public genera
to the need for improved and expanded programs
health education, physical education, and recreation.
nation so aroused will demand financial support {
such a program. For the first time in the history
VOLT EYBALL UA " ASKETE aN this nation, the government is cooperating with educ
| tion and with other agencies to promote the well-ben
Produced under direction of members of the of children, youth, and adults. A program designed
national girls’ rules committees. reach and benefit 130 million Americans and ma
@ TECHNIQUES IN VOLLEYBALL: Covers them physically-fit conscious is a colossal undertakin
serves, handling the ball, setting up the ball, Its possibilities stagger the imagination. But here
the smash, blocking, team play. lies the challenge. Cynics will say it cannot be dor
@ FOULS AND VIOLATIONS (Basketball): but a rapidly increasing army of professional worke
Covers all the fouls and violations. say it is eminently worth trying. :
@ ADVANCED TECHNIQUES AND TEAM ——
PLAY (Basketball) : Covers shooting, cutting, ; ;
plays, screening, guarding. Track and Field for Girls
Each isa 16mm, silent film on one reel with (Continued from page 89)
a running time of 20 minutes. Rental is $2 per ee
day of use plus a 50-cent handling charge. through them there may come the satisfaction to ea
- child of excelling in at least one activity. It 1s rel
Make your reservations now tively unimportant which ones are stressed. Each chi
SCHOLASTIC COACH BOOKSH oP might well make her own choices here, depending up(
her interest and her organic strength. It is perha
220 East 42nd St. New York, N. Y. important, however, that all of her time and effort a!
EEE —_—_____________— ZZ not concentrated on those activities in which it
difficult to find worthy opponents. The experience '
, defeat is as important for one’s development as is thi
, of excelling. Both experiences need to be kept |
balance.
L OW long should one continue to emphasize 1
: dividual activities? Recently there has been mu
said of the need of teaching in the later years of his
! SS... school and in college the activities which can be ca
Pp » GR ABLE! ried on in later life. Probably track and field ever
ae <~  SY, DUR { do not offer as much for adult life as some other for
Ww ~\ Dae ICAL: . woe
2 + y eCONOM of sport. But the whole argument for omitting in t
* ee high school and college those activities which canr
_ “yy be carried on later has been without any recogniti
Fe . of the physiological development of the individual.
‘. >. J TIONAL BASES are the reoduct of skilled Throughout life the adrenals secrete, and we 0
Ba / See cf experiance et the manitectur: much of our force and initiative and desire to mat
y of baseball bases. our strength with others to their secretions. But abc
Py ACCLAIMED BY HUNDREDS the age of twelve to fifteen the gonads begin to secre
. NATIONAL BASES are considered the This is, perhaps, the main factor that gives rise to t
emthusiantic Conchee and ohyrcal “chrec. vague feeling of wanting to merge oneself in a group
| n tors throughout the nation. gang or team. There is a mustness in this feeling whi
We also manufacture « complete line of Gym Mats, exceeds the austness of the home. The feeling of }
Boxing Rings, Wall Mats, Training Bags and many . . . . .
b) kindred items. Send for your free catalog today. in sacrifice for the group is beginning to develop. The
Send today for free base folder and mat catalog. isa feeling of satisfaction in responsibility for and p
tection of others. Upon the development of this te
, N ATION AL ing depends the bulwark of democracy. The child,
| course, does not see the implication of all this. It
only after one has been over a road that she can kn
SPORTS EQUIPMENT CO. the beauties, and also the possibilities for disaster wh
362-372 MARQUETTE FOND DU LAC, WIS. lie along the route. The guides or coaches must kn
. 108 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCAT

[
|
| the road. They may take advantage ot these vague be- bs , . a
ginnings of development which make possible a worthy Gang ways Catcher, l Md wearing ~
member of a society in which all are united, one and shoes with P. F.* (’ S
| indivisible, with each sharing responsibility for the good
| of all. This is the time when team games can be Nw ~ AD
developed with advantage. The individual activities XS oe
can well be pushed into the background now. Some
of them will come to the fore again when their main ¢
: value has ceased to be developmental and is merely ~ Sn
recreational. Conditions in adult communities and a
slowing of individual reactions make dual or loosely
_ organized activities more acceptable than team games. NS
But, to fail to give every youth between the ages ol mei Bw See ee ae
fifteen and twenty-five a rich experience in team games .
. . . ok
| is to lose the opportunity for one of the more effective Shoes with P. F. make Gym
| laboratory experiences in the training for democratic more enjoyable |
| lite, with all that it implies of cooperation and common !
good, equal privileges, and responsibility for each other. JAN
oy, ee
. . ; * "Posture Foundation’’—a sci- Lb eRe
T HIS should answer in part the last, and most im- entific improvement in rubber- | (a) /(/
portant, questions asked in the opening paragraph, soled shoes—is a mustforactive = |_|,
“How | Should tl . . k fel feet! It keeps the bones of the | \'
ow long should the training in trac and eld foot in natural position, helps a \ a |
| events be continued, and what principles should guide develop good posture, safeguards galt NY
our selection of activities?” The time to teach these foie flat feet. Lessens leg aoe z 4 |
| , eee : : atigue, too. Remember, ‘‘Pos- 4 3 ,
activities is in the developmental period of childhood. ture Foundation” is exclusive re £ ral
After the beginning of adolescence, it is desirable to with these fo brands + SS Ea «Sy wi
. . . er-soled shoes—Hood 4. / | A.
increase the emphasis on team games, although this ot Goodtich. v//, K\. d ROD
should not be interpreted as meaning the complete omis- (te _ ic
sion of the individual activities. After complete physio- ae =
logical maturity, or w iti ity or
gical maturity, or when conditions of community or — |ygop RUBBER CO. INC, anp B.F. GOODRICH FOOTWEAR
of individual life no longer allow frequent use of team
sports, a return to individual and dual activities is of
value because of their recreational possibilities. we G @ A i= a i
a
e Sr —=
A Recreational Games Program Ee. orsinais |
. ABS £ ~e Developed b
| (Continued from page 95) Ste: | - DR. FORREST C.
, ug te 5) PHOG” ALLEN
| court for the mass game, fifty-two students may he [— } # Education ‘and Varsity
a a " a tall
! accomodated. . . . ; PS rE upbasketball Coach
2. Small Gyinasiums.—In a smaller gymnasium it ———? Lawrence, Kansas
is more difficult to offer recreational sports satisfactor- i—-ian com. 4) Sm
| ily. To do this the courts may need to be made smaller. a > re sl AT a yt | a
. . sey oak aby _—, (ff a
| Pupils learn, nevertheless, the fundamental skills and  Ze@gieecte®l Pee oe . = rE . 3
! techniques of the game. By shortening the courts, forty- i Rn yee <a 3 “ ; 7
: Cre 2 7
| —— — — —— —f—-—- —-—---? : be os : an \ ” is ~
th ; ea £3", , s = / oe | A: av”
| a la t iy id 4
~ = a Ww
| FF a. ——
| I. a ; | a - = >
7 . . . Fills a need in every school ... Goal-Hi is a new year-’round
y se - ee Sire ss" indoor and outdoor playgame for boys and girls of all ages ...
4 ¢ @ May be played by entire gym classes or plavground rroi-s .
' Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym or on the
playground ... Unexcelled as a stimulat:ng exercise and as a fe> -
| up-game to regular basketball . . . it costs little to play Goal-Hi.
| | is Write for catalog
J Z Aliso Manufacturers of Basketball Backstops, Basketball Scoreboards,
| Ps Rope Gymnasium Apparatus, Playground Apparatus and Telescopic Gym Seats.
| J ESE FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.
; | F 70 3538 DeKalb Street St. Louis, Mo.
Authorized Sales Representative in your Locality
Figure 3. Floor plan | for small gymnasiums. a
FESRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 . 109

two students may participate simultaneously in a gym- indicating that the players should change courts can be }
nasium 45’ x 70’ (see Figure 3). used, or a certain number of points may be designated |
By using a singles court for badminton doubles and in each game. A winner-loser or an elimination tourna- |
deck tennis, thirty-eight students may play at the same ment in each sport may culminate the recreational sports
time (see Figure 4). program.
3. Classrooms.—An empty classroom affords a pos- Directing a recreational sports program is diffcult;
sible space for recreational sports. It will become a it requires skilful organization and management. The
popular place for both boys and girls during the noon plans which have been presented are representative of |
hour and after school. An average classroom is 21’ x types of organization which may be used. Each school
30’. This space may be converted into a small deck situation is different in some respect and requires a
tennis court. Figures 5 and 6 also suggest possible § program to suit its particular needs. It may be neces-
layouts of activities so that twenty are engaging in sary to try several plans before one is found which is,
activity simultaneously. considered satisfactory. sc
e———— —— -0-— — -— - > —
2. 2 : 2S 3 e ° ° |
t | al — Improving Community Cooperation |
l ones 9 (Continued from page 78) !
| a date. Since many girls have no classes after two -
| fo ai , o'clock it was decided to have the tea from 2-5 P.M.
| nd The Domestic Science Department felt they could not
45 fo ! ai aoa Fi $ handle more than five hundred people so the invitations
| Badalmton were limited to that number, although actually six hun- __
| Fis ‘ dred people were served. |
| fo i Step 2.—All committee chairmen were notified of |
| be ° the date set and their duties discussed with them. It
[| yes" (tH) half leboord (FH) fm genres was suggested they use student assistants wherever
v — 7 z possible and outline the part they were to contribute
very carefully. to avoid conflict and misunderstanding. _
Figure 4. Floor plan II for small gymnasiums. Step 3.—All committee chairmen were asked to
| €&-—al'—~+- qe ——2/'— —-y submit names of people on their committees. The
. g a society editor of the paper was contacted. The list of ,
i t Darts silver to be rented was agreed upon. Flowers and =~
| Cte feet al zble| Hable corsages were agreed upon and ordered. A dummy of
|. tenn eee | tannéd | tennis the invitation was drawn up and accepted.
| (4) ETT Bai|@ Step 4.—The Japanese Club formed the serving com-
; —_” mittee. The Rafu Shimpo, Japanese daily newspaper,
30 Squad 30’ was called and was asked to cooperate by sending out
| Table Shuitle- | a lady to tie the obis of the Japanese girls who were to
| | te Gg) | Box serve in native costume. Mrs. Fujioka, who has had
| (4) | , five daughters graduate from Hollywood High School,
— a | ‘ 4) was sent.
4 Pies | Step 5.—An order was authorized for one hundred
v 4 chairs to be moved the day of the tea. Arrangements
Figures 5 and 6. Floor plans of o clossroom. were made for the piano. The vice-principal was asked
to call civic and organization leaders, extending an in-
Before the pupil has become highly skilled, it 1s pos- _—vitation and asking them to pour.
sible for him to enter competition in recreational sports. Step 6.—All gym classes were notified of the tea
For this reason, tournaments included in the instruc- and an explanation of the plan for extending invita-
tional program may tend to enlist and sustain interest. tions given them. Each gym teacher was responsible
A ladder tournament in each activity throughout the for talking to her own classes. Publicity was given to
recreational sports season creates enthusiasm ; later on the high school news and to the newspaper. Posters
in the season, this type may be used between physical = were put up around the school at strategic -points.
education classes, homerooms, or school classes. A pro- Step 7.—An invitation to all faculty members was
gressive bridge tournament—either 1n one activity or im extended by the principal at a faculty meeting. Front
all recreational sports presented—is a novelty; a signal page publicity appeared in the high school paper.
cop FF | _ —  @ : oe, ft , 70 Cf .', yo
-- APPROVED EVERYWHERE! || ,, ra | GLENDALE, CALIF. + PARSONS, KANSAS
Lux-Tested, VAT-DYED FABRICS of BRODERICK Physical be .' r ' Education Suits for Girls are guaranteed not to run or fade!
110 , HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

ed invitations were issued to the girls upon re- \, ae
at noon time every day until the day of the tea. The 1942 Edition of
1ewspaper publicity appeared on the society page. 30 SUCCESSFUL CLOWN ACTS
ly bulletin, read to all fourth-period classes, car- . (mimeographed)
t notice of the tea. 50c cash or money order
p 8—AIl committees were checked to be sure Centrat vucal ys College. Strect Toronto Canada
thing was going as it should. ;
Expense Involved — _ .
Urns at $2.06....000. cece ee cetteeereereeereegp 4,12 Specify
»r Trays at $1.00... eee 2,06
rdenia Corsages at $1.00.....00000000 cece eee 12,40 phen
irnations at $.20 per doz... eee 4.20
Woes (oined) a ELIS SR Of eet ATHLETIC
vitations (printed in Print Shop) .....000000000000000... 3.47 a ~
tea, coffee for 600.0. 68.00 /iracima FQUIPMENT
-_ ; Mid. by W. J. Voit Rubber Corp., 1600 £. 25th St. Los Angeles, Calif
Vota ccc cccccccecscecececcseeececencecescecsesecsecseeecsererencatenteess P9475 Branch: 180 N. Wacker Dr, Chicago,
Evaluating the Outcomes
is difficult to evaluate outcomes as intangible as
t goodwill and appreciation, yet an attempt will \ +4 O O L SU ITS
ade. It 1s interesting, if not conclusive, to note |
all the civic and organization leaders invited to “ | IN FAST VAT COLORS
responded. There was not one refusal. The girls \ : ROYAL COPEN NAVY
told in gym classes to present their mothers to the 4 , SCARLET AND LIGHT GREEN
rs with whom they. had some contact either by ( ALSO OXFORD
‘st or membership in the organization. In addi- NS Jersey and Rib Knit
a lesson on etiquette and social behavior was dis- i e a. Equipped
d. WY @ Chips and Accessories
tations were printed for five hundred; six hun- ethan Ask for Somples
came. Parents were apparently pleased and in- OCEAN POOL SUPPLY CO., 71 W. 35th St., New York
ed in the endeavor since a number of teachers AN AFFILIATE OF OCEAN BATHING SUIT CO.
‘ed calls in later weeks from parents who started
mversation by saying they had met at the Mother-
hter Tea. Many parents wrote short notes of
ciation. ————
ichers expressed appreciafion over the fact that ) Pl ad
* ° . Paus Siogs .,, ‘
portunity was made possible for them to talk with JR os 0891 'y
ts in socially pleasant surroundings and not in the De eT |
time between classes or after school. Teachers Ss Official /
lat parents are more tolerant in their views as a | door ~Outdo a a
of the tea. we re PI} ROTEXs&s F sd
—_——_—_—___—__ a ——— ae
. . . lg kota } A BALL TO MEET
yerior Performance in Athletics SS Zs RECREATION
. | » AND PLAYGROUN
Continued from page 93
. (( . J pag } RAWLING “PROTEX” NEED.
are in this weight and age group because they SOFTBALL
had a normal development both mentally and phy- The ball that put speed =
vy. Their records show a marked increase in in Softball. Top grade joey
. . , . in every respect. Features ep 5
vement between light and heavy-weight which is the renowned patented ‘ae Fees ITN
al and also shows advancement in every phase inner seam protected lace — ae
the 12-year division. cover. Maing 3
is same improvement ts true in the girls light and RAWLINGS RUBBER Le Six -SB nea
os divisi f the 13 PLAY BALLS 7: oe”
rweight visions of the -year-old group and a Sturdy balls treated to herent
ite improvement over the 12-year divisions. insure normal action in —— iy
weight Division—Girls) Heavyweight Division—Girls respective games i Ben co Ady See “p>
select, normal, healthy, A select, normal, healthy, ketball, Volley Ball, Soc- ss.
c girl 14 years old who _ athletic girl 14 years old who cer Ball, Water Polo, and
; 110 lbs. and undercan: weighs over 110 Ibs. can: smooth rubber type for CATALOG MAILED
50-yd. dash— 7.1 sec. Run 50-yd. dash— 6.9 sec. group play. ON REQUEST
75-yd. dash—10. sec. Run 75-yd. dash—10. _ sec.
\00-yd. dash—13. sec. Run 100-yd. dash—13. _ sec.
Obeyd dash see, Run 100d dash—18 RAWLINGS
jump —13’ 8” Broad jump —13’ &” MANUFACTURING COMPANY ——
SAINT LOUIS © MISSOURI!
KRY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 ww

Lightweight Division—Boys Heavyweight Division—Boys This marked decrease in physical ability could be due
A select, normal, healthy, A_ select, normal, healthy, to retardation due to illness, fast growth, adolescence,
aeiahs rey he years o who aeiahs poy OS eee who _ and to the smaller number of boys of this age found in
Run 50-yd. dash— 67 sec. Run 50-yd..dash— 6.5 sec. the Juntor high schools. =
Run 75-yd. dash— 9.5 sec. Run 75-yd. dash— 9.3 _ sec. rr
Run 100-yd. dash—12.8 sec. Run 100-yd. dash—11.6 _ sec. N O |

. High jump — 4 6” High jump — 4 8" ew rieans
Broad jump —14’ 5” Broad jump —16’ 6” (Continued from page 75)

Summarization of the 14-Year Division—These boys of oysters by the wholesale or on the half-shell. These
and girls 14 years old are the normal 9th-grade pupils establishments were well patronized by families and
who have progressed with their grade with little-or no respectable society, for the luggers engaged in the
handicaps since entering school. Again their records trade were wont to tie to the posts opposite the mar-

: show marked improvement between light and heavy- kets with their daily loads of fresh and luscious
weight divisions and marked improvement over the 13- bivalves.
year old group. In the girls’ group the record of im- On Sunday afternoon, the scene around the square
provement shows the same natural growth. was more than picturesque. Greek ice-cream vendors

, , Lay , , wae . in tasseled fez; Choctaws reeling drunk in Father
vious sOeNion os eee lect, ht own ous Adams costume, a well worn, diaphanous blanket be-

. no , y, select, normal, healthy, . . . . . .
athletic girl 15 or 16 years old athletic girl 15 or 16 years old Ng substi tuted for the historical hg leat ° mulatresses
who weighs 120 lbs. and under who weighs over 120 Ibs. can: decked with gaudy colored tignons ; children in holiday
can: attire romping over the weeds in innocent glee; spec-
Run 50-yd. dash— 7.2 sec. Run soya cash 69 sec. —_tacled gentlemen, sporting their gold-headed walking
pun ee er ee Run 100d dash 134 sec sticks and dainty gold snuff-boxes; groups of City
High jump 4 4” sd High jump _ 44" Guards in gala uniforms and with formidable cutlasses ;
Broad jump —14’ 2” Broad jump —13’ 9” fashionable loungers—the dudes of the period—dis-
Lightweight Division—Boys  Heayvweight Division—Boys cussing the rival claims of Calve or Bamberger, the

A select, normal, healthy, A select, normal, healthy, favorite prima donnas of the Opera—all these co- |
athletic boy 15 years old who athletic boy 15 years old who mingled together and in incessant motion, offering the |
weighs 15 Ibs. and under can: weighs over, 'p ra ae ever varying and dissolving views of the kaleidoscope.
Run 73-yd. dash_96 ccc Ram 75-yd, dash 91. sec. The usual punishment for minor offenses and mis-

Run 100-yd. dash—12.3 sec. Run 100-yd. dash—11.8 sec. demeanors was exposure at the pillory, a custom in- |
High jump — 4° 7” High jump — 4’ 11” herited from our ancient colonial laws. The modus |
Broad jump —15’ 2” Broad jump —17" 1” operandi was as follows: The culprit was taken to |

Summarisation of the 15-Year Division, Boys, and the a" lace Carmes (Jackson Square now), and mace
15- and 16-Year Division Girls—The 16-year-old girls 0 Sm On & tow Plato, Carecny Taang |
were added to the 15-year division because of their or City Hall, from early morning to the setting of the
small number. These boys 15 years old and girls 15 or sun. Suspended from his neck, and overhangi ed hi ~
16 years old have been retarded in some way from breast, a large P lacard was placed, on hich, in big
keeping up with their grade, for ordinarily they should retters,, were Written ms thi i” (ae the thus e wate
be 10th-grade pupils. Their record of achievement shows 667 , ; &

; oe . be); “I stole from ————; sentenced ———— days,
irregularities in some phases of physical development. to exposure at this pillory.” As this was about the

In short dashes they are definitely slower, but in the y d th P ae being | di .
100-yd. dash they show development above the 14-year most Irequented thoroughiare, being in a cirect line

roup in both bovs’ and girls’ records ° to and from the public markets, multitudes habitually
grou y 6 / gathered around this place of punishment. As a gen-
Lightweight Ditsion—Boys Heayvweight Division—Boys eral rule, this system of discipline became very effec-

A select, normal, healthy, A. select, normal, healthy, tive, and it is said that, with very few exceptions, the
athletic boy 16 yrs. old who athletic boy 16 yrs. old who culprit seldem remained in New Orleans. to avoid
weighs 125 lbs. and under cau: weighs over 125 Ib. can: P . , .

Run 50-yd, dash— 6.8 sec. Run 50-yd. dash— 6.5 sec. being hooted at, jeered and, perhaps, re-arrested. This
Run 75-yd. dash— 9.6 sec. Run /75-yd. dash— 9.3 sec, _— Practice, as far as whites were concerned, was subse-
Run 100-yd. dash—12.2 sec. Run 100-yd. dash—12. sec. | quently abolished, but as to the Negroes, it remained
High jump V7 High jump — 4 10” in operation as late as 1847, or thereabouts.

Broad jump Au Broad jump —I6' 5 It was in the first year of Roffignac’s administration

Summarization of the 16-Y ear Division —These boys that trees—sycamores and elms, I believe—were first
16 years old have been retarded in some way and are _‘ Planted on the Place d'armes, the levee front. and
two years behind their grade. Their physical records  Citcus, better known as Congo Square. This was in
show that they generally do not make as good records 1820. In the following year, Mr. Montgomery, a
physically as the 15-year group and very little better member of the City Council, successfully introduced
than the 14-year group. a resolution, ordering the planting of sycamores all

: around the city, that is to say, along Esplanade, Ram-
* Not as many girls to draw from in this weight division, | part, and Canal streets, which was done, thus girding
_ 12 HEALTH. AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

the town proper with a beautiful avenue of umbra- “~~ wwyyieur pDACTIIDE MAREL
geous trees. The same councilman also urged the DWIGHT POST URE MODEL
necessity of substituting rock pavement for mud streets. Medium weight cardboard figure, vointed at knees and
A correspondence to that effect with some Northern faint, and to show dorsal curve and pelvic tilt” PRICES:
| contractors was thereupon opened. Backed by the 17 inch size, 50 cents postpaid, $35 a hundred.
7 Mayor’s influence and authority, a Mr. Scott consented Send PHILI P Cc. ASPINWALL’ fo:
to come to New Orleans and was the first contractor 599 Beacon Street ° Boston. Messochusetts
engaged to do the city paving. The materials used 2 21_——————————————————————————
were cobble stones, covered with sand and fine gravel.
, Square block pavements replaced them at a much pP ETER S$ N G y M MA TS
later period, some thirty years thereafter. - PETCO
| At about the same time, a fine substantial levee 1% eo 4 ~
| front was begun. This work the City Council opposed es pe ww
tor want of a sufficient appropriation, but Mr. Nicholas SEND FOR CATALOG ON “GYM MATS” ——
irod, Mayor at the time when the battle of New
Orleans was fought, and whose name fills a wide and
long page in our city’s history, being bent on the con-
! struction of this much needed revetment, completed
if. we
E
rr R N oO L pb co ais jg
e e efe A ducational College of 086.
| Safety Precautions vs. Liability The oldest <q the East, Orbertheloe of Science) *”4
| (Continued from page 88) DEGREES (Rarer of, Sian ION: Health Education,
7. First aid. Teachers of health and physical edu- MAJOR Fiat pducation and, Recewe” pields of Preners |
| cation’ must be informed of their duties with reference ELECTIVE Me aition. “F Physics! ces, Flistory and
| to first aid and all of its implications. There has been Social Bo nol rs ES in 48 STATES
laxness in this respect. First aid must be a part of ACCREDITED—GRADUAT ISLAND SOUND
. os ° SESSION © ER SCHOOL
the physical educator’s training and he must be able to ans WEEKS SUMM RNOLD COLLEGE
use it efficiently. Periodic short courses in training F se gg ary Street, New Haven, Conn
are recommended to supplement earlier training. The
administration is responsible for providing first aid
materials at suitable places. The physical education
teacher has the duty to render first aid. It is his duty,
also, to render nothing more than first aid. Teachers WELCOM E
will be protected from suit if they are arbitrary in this
matter and are not swayed by moral responsibility. American Association For
| 8. Determination of individual capacities and needs Health, Physical Education
! through examination and test. In addition to the ad- dR ti
| ministrative policy which demands pre-seasonal, sea- an recreation
sonal, and post-seasonal medical examinations in com- 7
) petitive athletics, there are other necessary tests of yr; gh Re.
| physical fitness and health which fall within the scope Acad ||
| of the physical director. It should be the rule that agen 4
| teachers conduct such examinations to determine ‘the ives a
! aptitude and degree of fitness of the individual student Geet id
to participate in the activities in advance of said par- dacs ee
| ticipation. It is negligence and has been so ruled, if, ise & oslo
. for example, a coach were to send a student injured or ee
| ill, into a competitive activity, even if unknown to the AN aan ae
| coach, on the grounds that it could be proved that a
| competent coach would have detected such an illness, MAKE RESERVATIONS NOW
| or injury. Regulation which requires such testing as a
part of the entire physical education and health educa- OFFICIAL HEADQUARTERS
tion program would be excellent protection to the IN
teacher. In this connection, Rosenfield states, “It NEW ORLEANS
! would be a notable work of good administration were
| supervisors to issue rules and regulations to cover cer-
tain cases of obvious physical defects such as, for . \
! example, evidence of heart or lung trouble, orthopedic HOTEL ROOSEVELT
defects, hernia, severe cases of malnutrition, thyroid
disease, and even known mental conditions such as low
ee
FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 113

physically fit citizenry. This may be the time to educate
against the laymen’s usurpation of our prerogative—
| (| Hy far the development of a well-rounded program. Proper in-
Ord dll Cnen y dividual aptitude tests, adequate equipment, and com-
: petent supervision will eliminate all unnecessary acci-
° ° ° dents. There are some accidents which occur as a
Ph cical a HOSIS result of the nature of the game. The teacher is pro-
tected in this respect and if the Board of Education
By wishes to further protect the teacher, let it provide
liability insurance for employees.
WHITELAW REID MORRISON, A.M., M.D.
Professor of Hygiene and Physical N conclusion, we must not disregard the value of the
Education, Oberlin College training of adequate personnel. There is need
and for continued in-service training in safety education.
LAURENCE B. CHENOWETH, A.B., M.D. Regulation will not do the job alone. Education must
Prof f Hygiene, University be a continuous part of every school system. Safety is
rofessor of Hyg , ;
ae , a concept which cuts across all lines of endeavor. It
of Cincinnati is not a single subject which when applied in a small
New (3rd) edition. Octavo, 368 pages, niche of the educational program, will bring about a
Hastrate eS. 00, nt GUINgS, Utopia of accident prevention. nea
This work presents the essential facts of nor-
mal physical diagnosis in non-technical language. °
It includes the treatment of some of the most A Workable Posture Project
common diseases and the athletic injuries. It is (Continued from page 91)
an indispensable work for teachers and those re- The cost will be much less next year, since the only
sponsible for public health activities.
expense will be for films and developing, and the pro-
LEA & FEBIGER gram will include only new students and freshmen.
WASHINGTON SQUARE PHILADELPHIA, PA. The program was instituted by filming the entire
girls’ student body. After the photographing was com-
pleted the girls were divided into groups of ten. Their
I. Q.’s so far as they are applicable to exemptions from _ silhouettes were projected on the sheet screen marked
particularly strenuous physical exercises or activities.” into 4” squares so that deviations could easily be seen.
Cumulative records for each student in health and phy- A detailed discussion of each picture was made with
physical education can make a real contribution in this emphasis on what correct posture is, and all posture
respect. deviating from the normal was discussed. Methods of
9. Use of personal automobiles in the conduct of the achieving correction were then taken up stressing the
teacher’s duties. There can be only one regulation. purpose and importance of good posture.
Don’t do it. This regulation is protection to the stu- Examples of good and poor posture were shown so
dent and to the teacher from suit. that each student had some means of comparison. Girls
10. Faulty and defective equipment. Insistence were urged to criticize their own posture pictures after
should be made that every teacher give notice to his the first few had been discussed. While taking pictures
immediate superior that such defective equipment exists we noticed a large number were wearing incorrect
and that activities which use such equipment can no brassieres and an explanation of the importance of the
longer be a part of a well-protected program. Frequent correct type was made here. General habits were also
inspections are necessary. These items among others discussed, such as careless stance and always carrying
may be regulated by administrative policy. books in the same manner, which were prevalent on
11. Curriculum. This is a very controversial ques- campus and caused enlarged hips, scoliosis, back-knees,
tion. Unfortunately, there have been established cer- etc.
tain court cases as precedent which indicate a trend Out of 576 pictures taken, 479 were projected (97
toward the possibility that laymen may become the ulti- girls had transferred or dropped). The following results
mate judges of what can be offered in the physical edu- were found: average posture, 255; need correction,
cation curriculum. Let us not be stampeded into elim- 143; good posture, 81.
inating from our curriculum the vital instructional ma- In the spring, retakes were made of those students
terial necessary for the attainment of our objectives, in corrective work (at a cost of 5c to each pupil) to
or we will be hable and in this case guilty, of a negli- note the progress made. We all were extremely satis-
gence which is greater and more far-reaching. I refer fied with the results. Out of some 60 retakes there
here to the softening effects of a “namby-pamby” pro- __ was definite improvement in about 55. We chose a few
gram, with the deletion of the thrilling, dangerous ac- _— pictures to show at Open House with a girl making
tivities common to life itself in a democracy. Our an explanation to groups of parents.
country is now in need of a strong, courageous, virile, During the entire year every means possible was
114 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

used to vitalize the project. One section of the bulletin
. . Th -
board was devoted to posture; articles and pictures $310.00 enced eoch. H U G H E S
were changed weekly. One of the local doctors spoke ers we placed in 1941 re- TE ACHERS
to the entire group on the importance of good posture. ceived an average increase A
A posture movie was shown and the walls of our cor- of oe $310.00. Did you \G EN cy
. . . ° ge Ge arge - jac n vd.
rective room lined with charts showing posture for on een 9010.00 "cHICAGS, ih,
all types. Oe
Student reaction has been excellent. Some of the
remarks were: “My sweaters look better,” ‘Every time TEACHERS AND SUPVS. OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN DEMAND
I pass a show window I straighten up,” “My father Our Field Middle West and West. Unexcelled Service—Established
wonders what I am doing to make me stand straight.” 1906. This will be a big placement year. Write for information.
The most valuable asset to us was the complete lack LO ES I eae te
of stigma in relation to correction, and because of this ROCKY MT. TEACHERS AGENCY
we were able to accomplish results much faster. Part es - Pee
of this may be due to the fact that girls in this category Largest, Most Successful Agency in the West
were a part of the regular roll call; they were allowed
to take dancing and participate in mixed sports, and ALL-WELDED Locker Room Baskets
correctives replaced the seasonal activities only. For Gym Suits — 9x13 x8—12%13%8
nui its — 18 x 28 x 10
We are looking forward to continuing the program nvestigare Gor pamaball Suits — 18 x 28x10 er and
next year and vitalizing a “feet and walking pro- convince yourself it is the most durable made. In re-
‘ect - questing a quotation, state how many baskets are wanted.
ject. KASPAR WIRE WORKS
—————7—— SHINER ESTABLISHED 1898 TEXAS
Something Old Has Been Added BOXING RINGS-MATS 7R4/W/NG BAGS
(Continued from page 79) —— A <einjleee penal lent #h% HELP BUILD
a A ding denlgued ber edhe we: ‘strone /
They do not possess that standard of fitness, that de- WY tery Set up or removed infew = - Y &
. . : F of id Y™ minutes. well constructed con- Ip . &
gree of health which is characterized by strength, en- <$ / Ve NY, {, ferme 0 all des low = pros ws sm
durance, agility, stamina, courage, and other qualities | |_ rw MANOA ete, Ce AB raze!
of manhood so necessary for carrying out the activities A ne i | BE eg ny VA
of modern warfare. They are not capable of marching
long distances with heavy packs, living out-of-doors
under adverse weather conditions, driving fast-moving Place your order NOW!
tanks over rough terrain, piloting the modern air or
sea crafts. These activities require huge expenditures NARRAGANSETT
Senay a ee ont FAN SHAPE STEEL BANKS AND GOALS
nfortunately, in the light of the present emergency, F.0.B. PAWTUCKET, RIL
our fine “peace-time’ sports and recreation programs 8 @O NET
have not conditioned us for the strain and stress of mod- 04 per par
ern warfare. We have followed the trend toward easier, The Official one-piece all-steel banks with the
lighter forms of sports; we have not played our sports non-glare white finish. Weite for information.
vigorously ; too many have drifted into the bleachers NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO.
and have taken their Sports vicariously. It is time that PROVIDENCE, R. I.
we took stock of our physical education programs—or N. Y. OFFICE 202 BAST 44TH ST.
rather that we surveyed our outcomes.
The selectees of today need more muscular develop-
ment above the hips and including the abdominal mus-
cles. Activities which necessitate the individual lifting /
his body weight, such as rope climbing and work on B O U V E = B O STO N
horizontal ladders, are needed to develop the arm and
shoulder muscles. Perhaps, in our enthusiasm for game SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION
activities, we have been too hasty in pushing aside the a ; ;
hori 1 bar. th ‘deh d th llel b * Offers sound training for young women in physical education
orizonta r, the side norse, an € paranuel bars. and physical therapy with 4-year B.S. degree course (in affilia-
Skill in the use of the body is seen in the performances tion with Simmons College). 3-year specialization course in
of our mnasts and the roducts of the Turnverein physical therapy provides theory and practical experience. Also,
BY . . ye Pp : . . . 3-year Normal course for general teaching field. June camp
: The “Trainasium” pictured with this article is a session on Cape Cod with emphasis on water sports—sailing,
Structure 20’ high, 40’ long, and 22’ wide, designed for rowing, swimming. Tennis, riding, archery. Instruction in win-
‘ oe . . ° ter sports emphasized. Thoroughly equipped gymnasium. Ora-
conditioning the men now in our armed forces. It is matics. Music appreciation. Excellent placement record.
| primarily intended for outdoor training. It can, how- F
. . or catalog, address Director of Admissions,
ever, be built for indoor use. It presents a challenge 109 South Huntington Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts.
tothe athlete as well as the novice. Using simple climb-
FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 115

ing, weaving, jumping, and balance activities, it attords rabbits, deer, birds, and chickens, is so accented with
a modicum of success for those with little or no train- —_ black that the effect is not at all bizarre or gaudy but
ing in gymnastics or sports. It is not intended to sup- = most pleasing. A scarlet drape striped with cobalt,
plant sport activities. It should put the individual in worn over one shoulder with the fringed end hanging
better condition for sports participation. Finally, it | down the back, completes the costume.
gives the participant a sufficient general workout which The most amusing costume is the one worn by the
is satisfying to those in good condition and a challenge = men of Solola. A red sleeved shirt, (cuffs much too
to those who are not in good shape to improve their = small); three-quarter length, candy-stripe, pajama-
deficiencies. Every army reception center where new __ panties; black and white checked apron; beautiful wool
men are inducted into service will find this structure coat of Spanish design (worn nonchalantly over one
of great value in conditioning men for the rigors of | shoulder); and an over-sized gay nineties “sailor”
modern warfare. The initial demonstration given in achieve an incongruous effect easily recognized. The
November at Fort Benning, Georgia, where it was first shirt is of red and white stripes, gathered in at the
installed, met with the hearty approval of representa- neck with plain red, long sleeves held into a small cuff,
tives of the different branches of the armed forces. »« = which always hangs open. The awkward length, pep-
; permint-pantaloons are not held up by a belt, but the
top, which has many extra inches of material, is rolled
Guatemala Ga rb and rerolled until it forms a tight ridge about the
. waist. A sort of apron of black and white checked
(Continued from page 82) wool is wrapped completely around the hips and fas-
Here for the first time we found the costumes of tened at the side. The short black and gray wool
the women less attractive than those of the men. All — coat, evidently of Spanish origin, beautifully hand-
in black and red they came to meet us. The upper woven and decorated with many conventional, scroll
garment of red and white, more like an old-fashioned — designs of black braid, is a most handsome garment
night shirt, with a small standing collar too small for but seems out of place among this assortment of styles.
the neck and long sleeves gathered into a tiny un- The more pockets it has the higher the price. This
closed cuff, was obscured a bit by a long, black, fringed — beautiful wrap is not accorded the dignity it deserves,
tunic, longer in front than back, falling to the knees however, for it is usually worn flung over one shoulder
and flapping freely. Red and white striped shorts were = and fastened down the back or under one arm. The
almost entirely covered by a black and white checked hat, however, is the crowning discordant note. It is
skirt or apron wrapped entirely around the hips and = much too large, much too feminine, and much too heavy
held in place by a red sash. The head dress (tzut) for comfort. The man from Solola also always car-
made of two squares of red cloth, was folded like a ries an oblong knitted bag slung over one shoulder
cravat and tied around the head. All in all these cos- = after the style of the handbags carried by American
tuumes were a gorgeous sight. women a short time ago. He knits this bag himself,
At Santiago Atitlan a little farther across the lake often working as he travels along the road, and dec-
one may see the most brilliant of all Guatemala garb. orates it with stiff, stick figures of men and animals.
White huipils with just a touch of purple, long, fire- Even though these men are great traders and travel
cracker-red skirts, iridescent halos, and a classic drape many miles from home they are just as camera shy
over one shoulder complete the most slenderizing, the as any of the other Indians.
most becoming costume in the highlands. The huipil The costume of the men in Chichicastenango is very
is snow white with a small purple taffeta yoke edged rich and handsome, but conservative and in perfectly
with fringe-like embroidery. On each shoulder are — good taste. In contrast to that worn by the men from
diamond-shaped designs of solid purple satin stitch. Solola every part of the ensemble is in complete har-
Around the circular neck is a very small ruffle effect mony. It consists of a jaunty black wool bolero, knee
of embroidery in red, green, and orange. The skirt, breeches with flaps at the side, and a red-embroidered,
a simple corte of scarlet drawn neatly around the hips, tasseled tzut. The general style of the suit, evidently
comes almost to the ground, and wrapped tightly as of seventeenth century Spanish origin and vastly be-
it is, acts as a sort of “hobble,” slowing down the gait | coming, gives the traveler a feeling that the figure has
considerably. The soft flap-flapping made by the skirt just stepped out of a kingly courtroom. The jacket.
as it slaps against bare feet is very pleasing. The most a long-sleeved drop-shoulder effect, is cut up in the
beautiful part of the costume, however, is the head- front to a two-strap fastening. A tiny stiff little collar
dress. Over the long, black hair, braided and wrapped _ stands up in the back only, and a wide band of corded,
— around the head, is wound a stiff strip of variegated colored fringe finishes the bottom of the bolero. The
cloth, two inches wide and five yards long. It is wound embroidery in red, purple, and yellow, done by the men
‘round and ‘round the head, each layer neatly in line themselves, adds the right Indian touch. At the bottom
with the last until it stands out like a thick turban, of the sleeves, above the armholes, and at the lower
flattering to most Indian faces. These beautiful cintas edge of the front runs a wide, loop design—like so
of every color in the spectrum are, strange to say, many ‘“‘l’s’—surmounted by a snail-scroll. From the
woven by men. The design, one of stripes, fences, and _ side of each armhole a conventional flower with branch-
hills interspersed with oddly shaped yellow or white — ing leaves decorates the back while at one side of the
~ 116 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

front may be found a small pattern of the Quetzal and bound securely in place by a narrow belt wound
bird. If, however, the wearer is of the highest class, | around many times. This gives the figure a very dis-
a sun with many rays is always used on the front. torted top-heavy appearance with a decided bulge in
! The cut of the trousers, which shows to good advan- the middle..
| tage the well-developed bronze legs, is hard to explain The Indian woman’s necklace is usually an heirloom
| without a drawing. They are left open part way up §—the last thing she will offer for sale! It may be
| the side where a big flap, like a swollen ear, is sewed made of coins or silver rings alternated with stone
| up the entire side seam. This ear effect, significantly beads or berries and usually has a crucifix or two on
| called orejas, is purely an Indian addition, but very the end. The husband’s wealth may be estimated by
| effective. The main body of the breeches are cut so — the number of chacales around her neck.
that they wrinkle considerably in the seat in the The wealth of costume design to be found among
Javanese manner. The embroidery here; confined to the 275 folk types in Guatemala cannot be over em-
the ‘“‘ears,” consists of sunbursts, scrolls, and circles. phasized. On our very doorstep lie artistic treasures
The headdress is a work of art. It is made of two indescribable. » «
pieces of red cloth joined with a colored satin randa. >.
Each side is elaborately embroidered with the popular,
two-headed “‘Hapsburg” eagle, which in this case Project Study of Mental Hygiene
should perhaps be looked upon as a very ancient Indian (Continued from page 77)
symbol. To tie the tzut so that the tassels hang at pag
the correct angle is an art for only the initiated. His 5. Strong tendency toward 5. The parents’ appeal to
sandals, called caites (for the man is the only one who introversion manifested in the physical education staff
wears shoes) are made of tapir hide and may be tan, withdrawal arom sta den. _ for help with the case.
red, or yellow. Sometimes they are of a very modern _ moodiness, devotion of leisure
toeless design but usually consist of just one or two time to working alone on his
straps. The sash of red and black to match the tzut (hobby,
is beautifully embroidered near the ends, but is wound 6. Lack of interest in school 6. Through the football
. . . and desire to leave during the coach’s contacts with the boy
around the waist so tightly that the designs seldom. junior year. as a member of the team.
show. When going to market the man carries over 7. Sensitivity over a physical- 7. Through the boy’s re-
one shoulder a large bag (a mextate) made of closely physical deformity. fusal to participate in regular
woven pita, sisal, or henequin. gymnasium work.
The women of Chichicastenango do not compare , 8. Craving for attention on 8. Through the boy’s con-
. 1e part of a boy who is a __ stantly creating a disturbance
very favorably with the men. They have short, stocky, — inember of a large family. in class.
pigmy-like figures stunted by hard work and too many 9. Inability to play or work 9. Through repeated “cuts”
babies. Their puny legs accentuate broad and bulging __ satisfactorily with a group. in physical education and |
feet. These women, in a climate that is cool if not through the teacher’s observa-
. . tion of the boy’s behavior in
cold, choose to wear short skirts up to their knees class.
although their figures are least suited to this style. 10. Habitual failure to fol- 10. Through observation of
| From the standpoint of warmth of color, however, low directions or to conform student in class.
| their huipils excel all others in vivid, prismatic color ‘© regulations. " |
' combinations. They may be woven on either a white 11. Extreme embarrassment I. In the first few class |
| : . . when meeting a girl for the meetings of coeducational
or brown background with a design that is predom- fret time. groups. in dancing, badminton,
| inantly red or purple. The round neck is outlined etc.
_ with rays of black taffeta supposed to symbolize the 12. Marked “hero worship” 12. Because of the boy’s un-
' sun. Around this are four 3-inch taffeta circles cen- | °f @ young man, outside the desirable attitude about the
' tered with a silver coin representing moons revolving _ *h0oh causing a hypercritical physical education program.
| and non-cooperative attitude
around a sun. Down the front and back and on each toward the school and the
| shoulder are elaborately woven and embroidered the parents.
|  two-headed eagle designs used by the men. The red __13. Compensation for a ser- 13, Through the attempt of
, huipils have also touches of green, yellow, red and ious physical handicap by the physical education staff to
| . . . marked antagonism, unruly arrange a program for the
| purple in the border designs and are SO accented with conduct, and generally anti- boy which would minimize his
: black that the general effect is surprisingly sumptuous. social behavior. handicap and help him to be-
The Janus-faced eagle is also used in smaller form on come better adjusted emo-
the headcloth and servelleta along with the ingenious, oo tionally.
__ fantastic dolls and birds. This cloth, folded and flung 14, Failure in school work, 14. Through the football
| . . ack of participation in school coach’s investigation of the
| carelessly on top of the head where it remains whether activities in a freshman boy _ reason for the boy’s failure to
or no, forms a most casual and graceful headdress. due to association with unde- participate in sports when ac-
| The short skirt of deep Prussian blue with fine white sirable companions. cording to the students he was
_ lines forms a pleasing contrast to the brilliant blouse. _— an excellent athlete. ;
| The skirt is joined at the side by a wide satin stitch 15. Extreme timidity, both 15. Through the teacher's
. ge with adults and boys and girls. observation of the boy in his
randa, which also extends around the hip lines. The physical education class and
skirt is worn over the bulky thick tail of the huipil around the school.
FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 17

|
16. An absorbing interest in 16. Through the boy's re- O* E of the stimulating aspects of the British Fit-
music to the extent of causing _fusal, at first, to come out for ness Campaign was the evidence it presented of |
apparent te ors ar itl we one t nen urged to do so recognition on the part of the physical educator that a
to participate in any normal sound exercise program rests on biological and medical __
recreational activities of ado- foundations, and the frank interest of the physician in |
lescents. , the physical training scheme. The medical profession
17. Strong dislike for a co- 17. In an investigation of had respect for the fundamental worth of the fitness
educational school. the cause of repeated cuts in =. ovement, and humility as concerned its own adequacy
physical education. we . . .
to push forward constructively the biological aspects
TT of the program. It realized that it could not be of
° ° ° service to the fitness movement unless it trained itself.
Physical Education and Fitness In the spring of 1939 the first British experimental in-
(Continued from page 70) troduction of physical training into the medical curricu-
ological Hygiene, emphasized that we know almost lum was reported.”* Fourth- and fifth-year students in
nothing about the effects of exercise programs as cur- the London Hospital Medical School were taught the
rently administered.24_ Why do we know so little of a theory and practice of the more strictly educational
matter which is of such imminent importance? I would aspects of physical training. In addition, they studied
say, in part at least because of the barrier of ignorance methods of conditioning for games and athletics. There
that stands between American physical education, Were demonstrations of the physical education work
American medicine, and its allied biological sciences. advocated for persons of different ages. The army
Two groups of Continental scientists stand ina more School of physical training discussed and demonstrated
intimate relation to physical education than is com- the rehabilitation work done with recruits unfit for
monly observed in this country.2? First, those with Service. The general conclusion reached was that even
purely theoretical interests who are mainly physiologists though the medical curriculum is already overladen, a
and include many distinguished University teachers.On  Well-organized short course in the theory and practice
the other hand, the practical application of scientific of physical education is a justifiable addition, since
knowledge to the problems of the sportsman, has at- ‘any technical medical problems were constantly aris-
tracted large numbers of young medical practitioners | 'g 1m connection with the physical fitness movement.
who participate actively in sports. The earliest organ- In this connection, a two-year scheme of combined.
ized group of scientists with these specialized interests medical and phy physical education has been ideally worked
(Aeratebund fur Foderung der Leibesubungen) grew out by the Medical Research Division of the Czecho-
up in Germany. As early as 1911 there was talk of slovak Sokol Union.* The “father” of this course,
organizing an international federation. This movement oftered to upperclass medical students and physicians,
was interrupted by the War and not revived again until was Weigner the chief of the Anatomical Institute of
about 1927. The real formation of an international | Charles University. This course was organized in 1931
association awaited the winter Olympics in St. Moritz, 0m a purely voluntary basis. The majority of its mem-
and the First International Congress of Physical Edu- _ bers have always been affiliated with the Sokol or some
cation and Sport met in Amsterdam in 1928. There sport club. A wide variety of subjects are discussed,
were some three hundred participants, representing Such as the athlete's heart, methods of medical exam-
twenty different countries. In 1929 a second organiza- ‘imation, sport injuries of the thorax, changes in the
tion for the scientific study of physical education came peripheral circulation in exercise, the physiology of
into existence under strong German influence. Its spe- light athletics, the medical aspects of gymnastics and
cific object was to bring the doctor and the educator sports for women, first aid for head injuries encountered
together. At roughly the same time, the League of | 1m sports, peculiarities of sport fractures, “doping” in
Nations Health Organization began to interest itself Competitive athletics, the chronic influences of exer-
in physical education and soon became a rallying point | ©1s¢ On champions, and soon. The lectures of one year
of a more truly international character than the older are devoted to exercise problems related to internal
federations. A congress of. sport physicians met in Medicine; the other, to surgery. In Prague there is a
Italy in 1933, France in 1934, and Berlin in 1936. The Clinic for Sportsmen, maintained by the Department
latter, which coincided with the Olympic Games, at- of Internal Medicine of the University Hospital. It
tracted fifteen hundred participants from forty different | Offers consultations with various other Departments.
countries.22. The sport medicine symposium included The English-speaking people are being awakened.
reports from Switzerland, Italy, Hungary, Japan, Arg- = This is evidenced by the following: “If we limit our
entine, and Brazil. It is interesting incidentally to | advice to the tired business man or the weedy boy to
note that the Second South American Congress of | urging him to take up ‘golf or tennis or something,’ we
Sports Physicians which met this year (1941) in are, verily, no better than the retired Olympic champion
Buenos Aires, attracted delegates from Bolivia, Brazil, _ who thinks himself well qualified to advise on all mat-
Columbia, Chile, Ecuador, Peru, Uruguay, and Vene- ters muscular .... We should evince an active interest
zuela. There is no such formal recognition of a pro- ‘im the type of muscle exercise that we or our muscle
fession of sport medicine’ in’ the English-speaking | cducationists advise.”?6
countries. On the Continent, physical education is in reality a
118 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

branch of preventive medicine. The sport physician cise known to have body-building attributes. If, in the
supervises the activity program. The physical educator final analysis, the trend of the times is adjudged ad-
is a technician, executing the program devised by the — vantageous to the social order, then the new curricula
sport doctor. It is self-evident that we want no whole- —=smay be said to embody eminently -proper digressions
sale transplantation of any European system to soil away from basic subject matter once thought to be of
of our own. Nor could one grow in our radically dif- | dominant importance to physical education.
ferent geographical location, nourished by a New World
philosophy which has glorified individual endeavor. NE further question remains. Is the contribu-
However, we too may be forced to pull together for O tion we have been called upon to make in the
the common good in unexpected ways. Let us assume furtherance of an expanding philosophy of education
for a moment that the American physical educator is and social service in keeping with our best usefulness
caught in this hypothetical scheme of exercise as a to the commonweal? The impact of the War upon
tool of preventive medicine. Is he to be reduced to the — the whole texture of the American scene is destined
status of a technician, subservient to the will of a to upset even that which had all the earmarks of rational
dominating medical profession more or less adequately —_— progress in recent years. {The emergency of this day
informed as to the theoretical and practical aspects of has brought with it an ever-narrowing allocation of
exercise administration, or is he to be granted the priv- specific responsibilities to specifically trained groups.
ileges of a share in the intellectual and practical leader- We are being called upon pre-eminently for one task—
ship’ Tf the physical educator hopes to be anything to improve physical vigor through the medium of ex-
more than a skilled technician, interested essentially in ercise. First things must come first once again. Away
the methods of teaching, he must bring to his practice — with the romanticism of socio-psychological objectives
of physical education a vastly more fundamental train- and the intoxicating immensity of the responsibility we
ing than that tion. \ characterizes the average profes- aye assumed for the unfolding of the whole man,
sional preparation. \In 1936 MacDonald, a corre- strong of body, fitted to group living along liberal social
spondent to the British Medical Journal, presented a lines, happy and content, occupying his leisure time
thought-provoking explanation of the empiricism of with physically developmental recreational pursuits.
physical training systems.*7 The principle on which = True, we must continue to remain one of the important
these are based, he wrote, is illustrated as follows: “If stop-gaps for leisure time, but we share that function
a person is aware of something wrong with his mech- with drama and the fine arts, with religion, letters, and
anism he should go to some expert who will tell him —_handcrafts. Above all that, we have another service to
what to do to put it right ; whereas, of course, he should _ perform, a service for which no other group in our
act on the opposite principle and go to an expert who social order is as adequately prepared. (Qur unique
will tell him what he ts doing to bring about his wrong- _— contribution to education is physical, not intellectual,
ness, and who will show him what not to do to enable technical, esthetic, or ethical } In our zeal to defend _
him to stop doing the thing that is causing the wrong- _ our status in the academic community as equal to any
ness. Now all systems of what is generally known as and subservient to none, we have had no energy left
physical culture are based on the former principle, and _ for the concrete actualities by which we are now being
therefore their only function is to deal with the judged. A thing is not achieved because we state it
symptoms and not with the origin of the misuse; and, _as our objective. There has been, it seems, very real
as symptoms differ widely we have these diversified confusion of objectives with accomplished facts. Im-
methods of curing them, while leaving their cause _ perative to the setting up of defensible and valid possi-
untouched.” , bilities of service in this time of stress, is a greater
There are those who would probably agree that courage to see things as they are, and greater willing-
the interim since the World War has seen American ness to pass that which we say we do through the mill
physical education drift steadily away from its biologi- | of an uncompromising reason. Those who exercise
physical foundations. The social sciences and education even a modicum of critical thinking are more interested
have occupied an increasingly important place in the in the analysis of our demonstrable results than in the
training of the teacher. Preparation in the basic and study of our aspirations.
medical sciences has been superficialized to the point In conclusion I would plead for an attitude of
of impotence, of value only for its qualitative cultural realism in physical education, intolerant of ideas born
attributes in contradistinction to technical training of a of an indifference to facts. I would plead for a return
: disciplined and useful kind. Where it has been re- to the biological era of a science of physical education
/ tained on a respectable academic level, the preliminary — steeped in the rational empiricism of a Tait McKenzie.
scientific preparation of the student has been thrown It has been said that “nothing is great which is not
| increasingly out of gear with the demands of the newer _ true.’”” An informed profession, straight-thinking and
practical program. It seems that teacher preparation concrete in its objectives, can be an influence of. in-
has been directed overwhelmingly toward that one con- estimable force in the meeting of our emergency. The
| temporary function which physical education shares | opportunities confronting physical education and pre-
with so many other agencies in the school system. Stress —_ ventive medicine today, are a challenge which can be
has been placed upon recreational aims to the virtual satisfied only by the best potentialities inherent in the
exclusion of the kind of rigorous and systematic exer- | sympathetic union of their common aims. (to p. 120)
FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 ANS

Reterences 21. Proc., American Legion Conference on Preparedness and |

1. Jokl, E., E. H. Cluver, C. Goedvolk and T. W. De Defense. Through Health Education, F iysical Education, an¢
Jongh, Training and Efficiency, an Experiment in| Physical OO Kat . "O, inn. Sp ‘Oo ich L ka > Soused
and Economic Rehabilitation, South African Institute for os. Aral, Jiri, rgamisace Sportovnich Lekaru ’ oused-

. nich Statech a snahy o Organisaci Mezinarodni,” Vestnik

Medical Research, Johannesburg, 1941. Ceskych Lek Cis. 25. 1931
2. “British Medical Association Report of Committee on 33K ; wa “Me. oe 4 : K. Sportovnich Lekar

Physical Education,” Supp. Brit. Med. J., (April 18, 1936) - Kral, Jiri, “Mezinarodni Kongres Sportovnich Lekaru a

149-178, Spolecnosti pro Choroby Premeny Latkove v Berline,” Casopis
3. ‘Physical Training and Recreation Act, 1937,” H. M. Lekaru Ceskych, Cis. 40-41 » 1936; Mezinarodni Federace |
. Sportovnich Lekaru a Jeji Schuze v_ Berline,” Vestnik

Stationary Office, London, 1937. Ceskych Lek Cis. 42. 1936
4. “Physical Exercise and the Public Health,” Lancet (March ODL tet Ban nshen te et , ; '

4, 1939) 525 24. “Physical Education in the Medical Curriculum,” Lancet,
5. “Report of the Group of Experts of the Commission on (Apt 22 Ge tien . “Statni Tel h K

Physical Education,” Bull. Health Organization, League of » avail, wr ostav, . tatn! 1 elovychovne ursy pro

. ; Lekare a Mediky,” Vestnik Ceskych Lekaru, Cis. 25-27, 1938.

Nations, 7:609 (August, 1938). 26. Lahz, R. S., “Physiotherapy and Posture, with Some
. . ° 9, . 9 , ry ’

1990 Health Organization, League of Nations, Geneva, May Remarks on Postural Anatomy,” M. J. Australia, 1:186-189.

* os : (Feb. 4, 1939).

> i 0. Organization, League of Nations, Geneva, Nov. 27. “Correspondence,” British M. J., (June 27, 1936), 1332
8. Hansen, E., and B. A. McSwiney, “Organization D’Hy-

giene: Rapport sur L’Education Physique,” Travail Humain,

6 :449-464 (December, 1938). y° | Dh ° |
9. Bromley, Dorothy Dunbar, “Keeping Fit the Alice Marble Nationa ysica ese

Way: The Program the Tennis Champion Will Carry to the ; |

Women of the Country as Part of the Defense Effort,” The E N |

New York Times Mag., Oct. 5, 1941. ese itness ews
10. “Physical Education in Germany,’ Board of Education

Pamphlets, No. 109, H. M. Stationary Office, London, 1938.

11. “Physical Training and Recreation—Memorandum Ex- This column is being launched in this issue to gather in one
plaining the Government's Proposals for the Development and place a large number of the news items received by the JourNAL
Extension of the Facilities Available,” H. M. Stationary Of- that relate to activities concerning national defense and civilian
ey Hielicbrandt, F. A. “Medical Impl f the British

. Hellebrandt, F. A., “Medical Implications of the Britis * * *&

National Fitness Campaign,” War Medicine, in press. A $100,000 physical fitness appropriation in the interests of

_13. Barcroft, Joseph, “Physical Unfitness in Relation to Den- national defense was announced recently by the Philadelphia

sity of Populations,” Lancet, (Oct. 9, 1937), 891; “Physical Board of Education, through Dr. Alexander Stoddard, Superin-

Cer nce Ureb na : 400 gay oor 108; tendent of pchools. It is obvious that every local institution
“Ttness, Core KE CO. Ns , ’ 7” ; : should render all possible help in the present national emer-

of Militiamen, Lancet, (July 1, 1939), 48; “Phy physical Fitness gency,” Dr. Stoddard told the Board of Education. “There-

in Scotland,” British M. J., (Jan. 23, 1937), 190; National fore, I recommend that the Philadelphia public schools provide

Enysical raining, Gis 8 1939). 3 1937), 1140; “Standards a program of service 7 2" following groups, in this order:

’ ’ a » OV. (1) potential draftees ; men and women engaged in spe-

14. “Physical Disqualification Under the Selective Service cial defense services, such as air raid wardens; (3) men and
Laws,” J. A. M. A., 117:114 (July 12, 1941); “Health of women engaged in defense industries; and (4) adult citizens
19. 14) Better than in foo Oe tl a 116 jive (Apa generally.”

’ ; “Physical Defects of Draft en,” J. A. M. A., Eighty-five school gymnasiums will be opened for the con-
116:1775 (April 19, 1941); “Medical Findings of Induction ducting of classes in conditioning for the above groups. Light,
Boards in New York City,” J. A. M. A., 117:459 (Aug. 9, heat, custodial service, and instruction will be provided.
1941) ; “Defects Discovered in Examination of Youths,” J. A. Physical education instructors were selected from a volunteer
M. A., 117:946 (Sept. 13, 1941); “Health of Young Men list, and are paid the regular salary for defense instructors.
Under Selective Service,” J. A. M. A., 116:54 (Jan. 4, 1941) ; Classes are held four nights a week, and each person is as-
“The Health of College Students and National Defense,” signed to two classes per week. Instructors teach either two
J. A. M. A., 116:787 (Feb. 22, 1941). or four classes per week. Grover W. Mueller, Director of

15. Recreation and Physical Training for Girls and Women, Physical and Health Education, Public Schools, is in direct
Board of Education Physical Training Series No. 16, H. M. charge of the program.

Stationary Office, London, 1937. John B. Kelly, Assistant Director of U. S. Civilian Defense
16. “Food and Exercise,” Lancet, (April 10, 1937). 882. in Charge of Physical Fitness, in thanking the school board
17. Barker, Ernest, “Community Centers in Relation to for its action, expressed the hope that this vast program would

Public Health and Public Welfare,” Lancet, (May 7, 1938), serve as a model for other educational systems. ‘There is

1070. $7,000,000 worth of facilities in the schools and colleges of the
18. Rudis-Jicinsky, J., Our Task, Aim and Goal, Executive United States,” said Kelly, “which are now being used to only

Committee of the Sokol Union of America, Chicago, 1917. 27 per cent of their efficiency.

19. Burns, David, “The Assessment of Physical Fitness,” + * *

. British Assoc. for the Advancement of Science, Address to A 10-point program for Civilian Preparedness in the War

Section I—Physiology, Dundee, 1939. Emergency was adopted by the Hygiene and Physical Educa-
20. “Physical Fitness from Two to Twenty,” J. A. M. A., tion Association of the College of the City of New York on

116:1223 (March 22, 1941); Wetzel, Norman C., “Physical December 8, according to Joseph Bressler, President of the

Fitness in Terms of Physique, Development and Basal Meta- Association.

bolism,” J. A. M. A., 116: 1187-1195 (March 22, 1941); Jokl, The program embraces increasing physical education to one

Ernst, and E. H. Cluver, “Physical Fitness,” J. 4. M. A. 116: hour every day for all men and women students under the

2383-2389 (May 24, 1941); Kessler, Henry H., “The De- jurisdiction of the Board of Higher Education, including high

termination of Physical Fitness,” J. A. M. 4., 115: 1591-1594 schools ; introduction of intensified activities to build up strength

(Nov. 9, 1940). and endurance of pupils; expansion of athletic programs, cor-

120 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

rection of defects, extension of medical service, institution of She had N.S.W.A. rule books, Service Bulletins, and the Sports
first-aid training for all students, and addition of military Bibliography on display. .
training. »* * *

The facilities and physical education staff will be used on The active Philadelphia area has these items to report:
Saturdays and Sundays to provide physical fitness training The Philadelphia Board of Women’s Basketball _Officials
to the members of civilian defense agencies, such as auxiliary held the annual interpretive game at West Philadelphia Cath-
firemen and air raid wardens. The programs for physical fit- olic High School for Girls. Eleanor Snell, Ursinus College,
ness and civilian preparedness will also be extended to include was in charge of the program. The interpretation of rules was
evening session students. given by Anne Dealy, of Hallahan Catholic High School for

| *_ * * Girls.

! Panzer College of Physical Education and Hygiene has of- The Pennsylvania Athletic Club held a skiing clinic for

| fered its facilities and buildings to the federal government as the benefit of those interested. An “information please” on

! a possible training center, it was announced on January 19. skiing by the Ski Club of Philadelphia, and moving pictures
A first-aid class for air raid wardens has already been started, from Sun Valley were presented.

| which was attended by sixty men. Plans to organize discus- + * *

! sion forums are also being considered. From the Southwest District newsletter, for which Eleanore

Invitations have been issued to men stationed in the armories Ginno, San Mateo Junior College, was responsible, the following
of the Oranges and Newark and also the Observation Squad- items are of particular interest to the readers of this column.
ron located at the Newark Airport to attend the dances and Royma Wilson, University of Southern California, State
other programs held at the college, such as the college bas- Representative of Southern California, reports progress on the

| ketball games. establishing of a board of Women’s Officials for Santa Barbara
County and one for San Diego County.

There will be a meeting of State Representatives April 10,

’ A e 1942, at Albuquerque during the Southwest District Convention.

Women S thletic “fe The Hockey Rules Committee met to plan the Guide for

S e N 1942. The possibility of permitting any stroke on a free hit,

° including the scoop, was discussed. This question arose be-

“o° ection ews cause sO many advanced players now use a flick on the free

hit, which often is raised off the ground, so that either all

. a raised free hits should be barred, or scoops allowed. Any

By Ruth Diamond, Municipal University of Omaha opinions in the matter should be sent to the Chairman, Martha

The legislative board of the National Section on Women’s Gable, 1318 Wakeling Ct., Philadelphia, Pa. at once. Sug-
Athletics of the A.A.H.P.E.R. held its annual Christmas meet- gestions for articles are welcome. <A _ rules chart, compiled
ing at the Henry Hudson Hotel in New York City during the by Anne Townsend, will be included in the rules.
holidays.

The following news from this meeting comes to the organiza-
tion from the secretary:

A pamphlet, “Desirable Practices in Women’s Athletics,” is N f th
‘now available through the Washington office, free of charge. ews r om e “

N.S.W.A. has endorsed the “Hale America” program. Dr. e e
Nash reported to the Board the steps which are being taken ° Th S
by representatives of the physical education profession to aid “° erapeutic ection
in the development of this program. Martha Gable reported on
the physical fitness program which has been sponsored in
Philadelphia as an example for other cities. By Ellen Kelly, University of Minnesota

Plans are now in progress for an N.S.W.A. Post-Convention Teachers of body mechanics from the Middle Atlantic an!
Sports Conference on Saturday, April 18, in New Orleans. Southeastern states participated in a two-day conference at the

| There will be opportunity for discussion and participation in West Chester State Teachers College in Pennsylvania Decem-
a variety of sports. An N.S.W.A. luncheon is planned for ber 5 and 6 under the direction of Myra Wade. This conference
Saturday noon. has been an annual or bi-annual event since 1934. The program

Bessie Rudd was elected the new Secretary for N.S.W.A. this year centered around three main topics:
to go into office June 1. Mrs. Hildegarde Farquhar of the University of Pennsylvania

A Defense Committee was appointed. led the discussion on “Motion Pictures in Relation to Posture

It was voted that groups working under the N.S.W.A. Rep- and Body Mechanics.” The conclusion of this discussion was
resentative in each state be called Boards of W'omen's Athlictics that films with good motivation and which stress the really

| and that they be designated by the name of each state. significant points in body mechanics are still deplorably few.
| The publication of guides for use in the Latin-American This field is wide open to the amateur photographers among
! countries was referred to Elizabeth Beall. our ranks. Those of us in institutions with Bureaus of Visual
| The following chairmen of sports were appointed: Josephine Education will find the services of these bureaus readily avail-
Persicano, basketball; Mrs. William Zang, bowling; Stella able, and its personnel desirous of cooperating with us.
Fox, fencing; Bessie Rudd, hockey; Emma Waterman, golf; Ellen N. Duvall of Goucher College initiated the provocative
Martha Farmer, lacrosse; Esther French, softball; Helen subject of “Physical Education Activities which Violate the
Yeakel, speedball; Helen Russell, tennis. Principles of Good Body Mechanics.” Viola Zullig of Temple
+_ * * University led the discussion of “Laboratory Periods in Body
! A volleyball survey is being sponsored by the Women’s Mechanics as a Part of Hygiene Theory Classes.”
| Athletic Association of the University of Georgia under the The conference emphasized especially two needs in the field
! direction of Amy Slocum, a member of the national Volleyball of body mechanics: first, that of more adequate body mechanics
| Committee. preparation in all teacher-training institutions, especially for

They hope to give in the 1942 Volleyball Guide a complete teaching on the elementary level; and secondly, the need for
picture of volleyball in the United States. research on the results of the efforts of teachers in the body

! . * * mechanics field. These problems are most timely and sig-

Charlotte Graichen, North Dakota State Women’s Athletic nificant.

| Section Chairman, talked about purposes and services of the Plans for the first preconvention meeting of our Therapeutic
: N.S.W.A. at the North Dakota State Teachers Convention. Section, meeting with the American Physiotherapy Association,
| FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 121

"Ta
are proceeding smoothly toward their final form. The officers sided. Panel members included Mayor James Law; Super- |
of the latter association, who are also members of the intendent of Schools Philip Falk; Dr. Helen Parsons, Uni-
A.A.H.P.E.R., have been most cooperative in sharing respon- versity of Wisconsin Dietetics Department; Dr. P. W. Seger-
sibility with our chairmen, both in planning and contributing son, draft board dental examiner; Dr. Harry Keenan, Dane
to the program. Although we cannot publish the complete County Medical Society. Dr. Robert Francis, University of
program and list of speakers this month, it has been planned Wisconsin, is president of the Association and Howard Dan-
to include a variety of subjects of interest to persons in either ford, City Recreation Director, is program chairman.
physiotherapy or teaching. We should like you to know also Robert Nohr, Jr., University of Wisconsin, has been ap-
how gracious has been the response of persons who have been pointed State Director of Physical Fitness in the National
invited to help or to appear on the program. We hope our Council of Defense Program for the Sixth Corps Area. Fred
confidence in our members attending this meeting, for which Hein, Director of Physical Education, Oshkosh Public Schools,
there will be no extra fee, is justified. It is an opportunity for who last year promoted physical fitness councils in the Wis-
intensive and stimulating thinking and discussion with a group consin cities, will serve as his assistant.
of persons primarily interested in this field. The meetings will In every city and county, physical courses are being offered
be held from 9:00-5:00 on Tuesday, April 14, the place to be in First Aid and Home Nursing to prepare civilians to meet
announced later. emergency needs. Directed by Dr. Helen Denniston and A. L.

The program for the regular meeting of the Therapeutics Masley, the men’s and women’s physical education departments
Section will center wholly around the subject of “The Posture at the University of Wisconsin are offering special courses for |
and Corrective Program in the Elementary School.” credit in first aid, water safety, and physical fitness. |

A series of sports appreciation programs are being broadcast
over Station WIBA, Madison, on Wednesday nights. The
e e e broadcasts are directed by J. K. Kennedy, Supervisor of
Mi dwest Distri ct ee Recreation, and are written by J. P. Terzian of the Madison
® Recreation Department. They are held in the interest of im- ,
A e e N proving the spectator’s appreciation and knowledge of the
various sports. A football quiz with high school stars partic-
“ ssociation ews ipating, a history of football, a basketball quiz with players
from the University and local leagues participating, a speaker
. . . . oe . . commemorating the Golden Jubilee of basketball, a round-table
¥ resident—“Grace M. Griffin, West Virginia University discussion of the growth of basketball in central Wiconsin
ice-President—Ben W. Miller, Indiana University h bee he broad :
Past President—A. H. Pritzlaff, Chicago Public Schools ave been among the broadcasts.
Secy.-Treas.—Robert Nohr, Jr., University of Wisconsin
Member-at-Large—Ross L. Allen, Ann Arbor, Michigan
Editor—C. A. Wangerin, Whitefish Bay Schools, Milwaukee
MICHIGAN... . . . ~~. ~..~—sC By _-Roy J. McMurray News from the ofe |

Many student councils in Michigan are carrying on cam-
paigns in which they are collecting scrap metal, rags, papers, °
and useful war materials. These materials are sold to dealers ete Student Section
and the money raised is to be used to purchase stamps and : :
bonds.

The senior physical education teachers from Michigan State The Student Section got off to a good start toward a na-
College were visitors for a full day in various health education tional organization last spring at the Atlantic City Convention.
classes in the Saginaw public schools. They were accompanied Several meetings were held under the leadership of the Ex-
on their trip by Prof. K. J. McCristal of Michigan State ecutive Committee composed of Curtiss Gaylord, Chairman,
College. Lilyan Boyd, Grace Wilts, and Dr. Margaret Brown, the

Assignments for the annual state basketball tournaments faculty advisor from Panzer College. During the present
were completed at a recent meeting of the tournament location year a Committee on Student Section of the A.A.H.P.E.R.,
committee. which has as its primary function to initiate the organization

Class A tournaments are being held in Kalamazoo, Adrian, of a National Student Section, has been working toward the

Dearborn, Ferndale, Lansing, Grand Rapids, Muskegon, and achievement of this aim.
Saginaw. Regional tournaments are being held at St. Joseph, The following message from Mary Hess, Chairman of the
Kalamazoo, Albion, Adrian, Ypsilanti, Dearborn, Ferndale, Southern District Association Student Section, brings out the
Pontiac, Lapeer, Lansing, two Grand Rapids locations, Mus- importance of carrying through the plans at the coming na-
kegon, Saginaw, Mt. Pleasant, and Petosky. tional convention.

Aside from these regional centers, there are fifty-two district Calling All Students?!
centers located in the lower peninsula. Upper Peninsula schools H ti be de? A oe - ow
confine their activities to the Upper Peninsula tournaments. f rh, . N. uF nal ‘Co tons Deen ma sh A «oN oO, ‘ Pennies

The girls basketball conference held in Ypsilanti on De- ort 5 ational Convention to be held in New Orleans this
cember 13 had many outstanding features. The demonstration oon eh ‘onal crisi h bef h
of synchronized swimming given by Katherine Curtis of Chi- f n the areas qd acti, as per heshio. A ore, isl is need
cago Junior College was an interesting part of the program. OF re avert an ene "to be | Pp. AS jporentia teachers

Laurie Campbell discussed rating of officials and arranged Ms ‘ave a respons! ity to increasingly aware ol your
the dates of February 24 at Ann ‘Arbor and March 3 at ssociation s doings. It is most important also that students
Ypsilanti for giving national basketball ratings. Written rules have a large, active representation at the Convention this year
examinations must be taken before these dates. Arrangements because of the rasan we are being given to organize a
can be made through Genevieve Fox of Michigan State College National Student ection.
and Laurie Campbell of the University of Michigan. Two professional meetings for students have been scheduled

—one on April 17 from 4:00-6:00 p.m. and the other on April
WISCONSIN » ee ew wheel) CBy «Beulah Drom 18 from 11:30-1:00 p.m. As soon as committees for student

The recently organized Madison Association for Health, social activities have been selected and their plans approved,
Physical Education, Recreation, and Safety sponsored a panel these plans will be made known to you.
discussion on “Mobilizing for Physical Fitness” at Washington Your membership in the National Association is one in-
School, January 13. The discussion was open to the public. dication of your interest in student affairs. Join now if you
President C. A. Dykstra of the University of Wisconsin pre- have not already done so.

—_ 122 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

|
| Let’s answer this challenge, students! Let’s accept the Please return questionnaire and comments as soon as possible
| responsibility of making a National Student Section a func- to: Mary Hess, Texas State College for Women, Box 2273,
| tioning, essential part of the American Association for Health, Denton, Texas.
| Physical Education, and Recreation.
Mary Hess, Chairman :
Student Section, Southern District f
* * +& e
The following questionnaire has been sent to all teacher- — News rom the *”
education institutions offering a major or minor in our field. °
| Please be sure that you have become acquainted with these e%e D S t
| questions. Although we have already received answers from ° ance ec ion
a few colleges, we are still very interested in any and all the .
} ideas you have. Therefore, please jot down your views and
send them to the address given below. By Janet Cumming, State University of lowa
Questions ‘te Be Considered The suggestion has been made that this column. could be
| a ws . of greater service to its readers by listing events of interest
(Please put “yes” or no before each question and put your to dancers previous to the happening. Those interested in dance
comments on these questions and additional suggestions on a would like to be able to see programs, art exhibits, etc., if
separ ate shect. ) . they knew about them. The readers can help by sending in
| I. Vational Convention . . listings before the fifth of the month preceding the month in
| A. Social Meetings. Would you be interested in: which the activity is t .
. y is to occur.
—__1. A student breakfast (just for students) ? ts o« «
—__2. A tour of New Orleans at night?
3. A “date” bureau ?. Orchesis of Pomona College at Claremont, California, was
____4. A “personalities party” at which you would be hostess to ten colleges and universities of the Southwest,
introduced (informally) to leading personalities November 29, for the annual dance symposium. ‘Dance as one
| of our field? of the Arts in a Liberal Arts Program” was the theme of the
_—__—5. A school luncheon (for students, graduates, and day. In the workshop period, each of five groups worked on
faculty of your school) ? dance compositions from one of the following approaches:
B. Professional Meetings. Topics for discussion: dramatic idea, musical form, pure dance movement, abstract
____1. Plans for a national student section? (Discus- ° design, and folk, court, and national sources. A panel discussion
sion) ° by members of the Pomona art, drama, music, and philosophy
(Please put additional topics on separate sheet.) faculties further developed the theme. Harriette Ann Gray,
II. Organisation of a National Student Section formerly a member of the Humphrey Weidman group, led the
___1. Are you in favor of such a section? master lesson and represented dance on the panel.
_.__2. Are you in favor of district and state student sec- During the presentation period, the University of California
tions ? at Los Angeles, Santa Barbara State College, Arizona State
Some topics for consideration concerning the above College, University of Arizona, and Occidental College each
two questions which you can comment on, on a separate contributed to the program.
page, are: An exhibit of “The History of American Dance” from the
a. Should these sections have a chairman and secre- Modern Museum of Art, secured by Mr. Thomas R. Beggs,
: tary and what other officers? Professor of Art at Pomona, and a demonstration of a five-
b. Is it important to have co-chairmen (boy and girl) ? lesson course in “Compulsive Rhythms” by Thurston Knudson
c. Would a past chairman and a chairman-elect be and his Scripps College class contributed to the program.
helpful on this committee? Approximately one hundred twenty girls and five men par-
d. How shall these people be nominated and who shall ticipated in the symposium. Schools represented, other than
! vote on them? the above mentioned, were Whittier, San Diego State, Univer-
! e. What shall be duties of a national section? etc. sity of Southern California, and University of Redlands.
| (It would be helpful in answering these questions Much of the success of the symposium was due to the efforts
to read in the September 194] JOURNAL OF HEALTH AND of Miss Loutse Bird, who passed away on December 7 at the
Puysicat Epucation the Constitution of the A.A.H.P.E. home of her parents, Dr. and Mrs. A. A. Bird in San Leandro.
R., Article VII, “Organizations and Sections.”) It was she who extended the invitation for Pomona, made the
| III. Ways and means of: preliminary arrangements for carrying out the theme and
| a. Increasing membership in A.A.H.P.E.R. ) secured the cooperation of the other departments. All who
b. Increasing attendance at conventions. knew of her and her work deeply feel the loss of a warm
| (Please put specific suggestions on separate page.) personality and an ardent dance enthusiast. Ovilla Wood
| IV. To be answered. by the “hostess” colleges only, that is, all Williams, who was appointed to fill Miss Bird’s place, was
| institutions in the Southern District. advisor for the final arrangements of the meeting and was very
| Please list on a separate page the names of persons in ably assisted by Miss Beatrice Richardson, advisor of Scripps
| your group (boys as well as girls if the group is coeduca- College Orchesis group, also at Claremont. All activities of
| tional) who would like to work on student committees at the day were conducted by and for the students. Next year
the convention. Santa Barbara State College will be hostess to the group.
} Signed: _ eee + * *
| President, H.P.E.R.. Club Name of Institution A Dance Workshop program was presented at the College
|
| THE CHALIF NORMAL SCHOOL OF DANCE
Special Summer School June Ist We also offer 4 Chalif Folk Dance books, 5 Chalif text books, and a selection
to August 28th. Seven hours of — of one thousand teachable dances with music, clear and complete descriptions,
instruction per day. Monthly or from $1.00 up.
weekly rates. intensive all-year course. Faculty of ten master teachers, tuition fee reasonable.
LOUIS H. CHALIF, ROCKEFELLER CENTER, 630 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK
Please write for free catalog
FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 123

Theatre at Bennington College on December 17. Three Men Marvin Pugh, Salt Lake City, and Ida Stewart, Ogden, were
of Gotham: A Motion for Marionettes from Gordon Craig’s recently appointed as new members of the Southwest District
“The Marionette,” was composed, set, and lighted, and directed Executive Committee.

by Muriel Brenner for her senior project. William Bales com-

posed and directed Es Mujer, the theme of which is based upon CALIFORNIA... . . . . +. +. + By Margaret King
the tradition that a child is accepted as an adult when she is The new curriculum for high school boys’ and girls’ physical
to become a bride. Five Small Dances, Rhythm, Jazs Ptece, education in San Francisco has been completed under the
Gavotte, Nurse and Child, Horses Running ’Round, Definition direction of Edith E. Pence, Director of Curriculum for San
of Swing, Solitary Blues, and Fugato on a Well-known Theme - Francisco Public Schools.

are the titles of the dances which completed the program. Long Beach’s “University by The Sea” had an attendance

Martha Hill, Arch Lauterer, and William Bales directed the for the first quarter of the fiscal year of 32,290 people. The
program. Music was under the direction of Zoe Williams, “University” is a platform off the pier at Long Beach where
Edward Glass was Technical Director, Shirley Broughton was men and women indulge freely in the great American preroga-
Stage Manager, and costumes were constructed under the tive of speaking one’s mind, joining in community singing, and,
direction of Helen Bottomly. on occasion, dancing some of the old-time steps that have

* * * become a part of our national folk customs.

“The Dance Club of the Department of Physical Education First Aid will be taught next semester to every B12 boy,
and Health of New York University presented a dance program and Home Nursing to every Bl2 girl in the Los Angeles City
on December 22 at the School of Education Building. Student Schools. Plans are also under way extending this instruction
compositions and a dance project based on Carl Sandburg’s to include the junior high school and upper elementary grades. |
‘The People, Yes,’ were included in the program.” Louise Cobb, President of the California Association, spoke —

ee to members of the San Francisco Unit January 21 on “The
Coordination of Health and Recreation to the National Defense.

Charlotte MacEwan has sent the following news: Program.” !

“Students in the Wellesley College Dance group contributed Long Beach Unit officers were hosts to the Southern Section
to the Art Department’s exhibit of Indian basketry and hand- representatives for their regular monthly meeting and breakdast
crafts by presenting a dance composition based on work themes in December at the Alamitos State Park clubhouse.
in basket making. Indian drum-baskets, rattles, and metal An outstanding example of what a community organization
ornaments were used for accompaniment.” can do for recreation is shown by the Orange Show Association '

_ at San Bernardino. The San Bernardino Badminton Club 1s
granted the use of the Orange Show building. Members of |
the club use the building nightly except during the Orange _

S h Di ° ; Show. President Merril Morre says total membership at pres-___

out west istrict °° ent is 75 members.
e ; nate annual meeting of the San Francisco Bay Section of
the California Association wi eld at Stanford University
- Association News | %2
Eighteen school playgrounds and one woodshop area in Long
Beach were open during the Christmas vacation period under
President—James W. Coleman, University of Nevada, Reno the direction of regular and W.P.A. leaders. — . |
Vice-President—Mrs. Leo Gleaves, University of New Mexico, At Riverside the city badminton championship tournament’
Albuquerque in progress at the Y.M.C.A., with the men’s singles and doubles —
Secy.-Treas.—Janet Wood, Arizona State Teachers College, being played. In the spring the mixed doubles and womens —
Tempe ; ; doubles tournament will be held under the same management.
News Editor—Margaret King, Roosevelt School, Salinas, Calif. Boys physical education at Campbell High School has been
S. WW, Dist. Convention, April 9-11, 1942, Albuquerque, N. M. revised to prepare young men better for military service. A
class period, as outlined by Herb Hudson, instructor, includes
NEW MEXICO .. . . . . .. By Birdie Bryan West a 5-minute calisthenic period at the beginning of the class, and

George Petrolonus of Espanola is the new president of the tumbling and fundamentals in the various sports in season.

New Mexico State Association, | A special activities committee was recently appointed to
. New members chosen to serve on the Southwest Executive organize and direct activity for Long Beach Unit members in

Committee are: Mary Alice Gale, Silver City, and Gerald badminton, volleyball, handball, golf, tennis, and bowling.

Northcutt, Albuquerque. The San Francisco Unit is sponsoring an Instructors Course

F. M. Wilson, Albuquerque, was recently appointed Chairman in First Aid following the request made by the Civilian Defense
of Men’s Athletic Section of the Southwest District. Committee and local Red Cross for more instructors for

Civilian First Aid Groups.
UTAH ..... .. . . . . » By Ida Stewart Woodrow Wilson High School girls of Long Beach were

The Executive Committee of the Utah Association met early hostesses at an indoor playday in December for girls from
in December and decided upon a change of policy to be effective Excelsior, Continuation, St. Anthony’s, Poly, and Jordon high
during 1942. schools.

Ida Stewart has taken a leave of absence from the Weber San Jose city schools have recently completed plans for a
College faculty for the months of February, March, and April physical education program designed to prepare young men for
to assume the duties of State Director of Health, Physical military service.

Education, and Recreation in the absence of Bernice Moss. San Diego has been given a grant by the federal government
Miss Stewart will take over the duties of secretary to the for facilities for three large recreation areas that will be
Utah Association as well as Chairman of the Committee on opened in the near future.

Membership. Boxing has been set up in the Madera High School as an

Leona Holbrook, Brigham Young University, has been elected intramural sport. Intensive class instruction and training is
to serve as President of the Utah Association. given to boys during the three months following the football

The publication “How We Do It,” prepared by the State season. This three month instruction period reaches its climax
Association, will be replaced by a series of newsletters contain- in an all-school tournament known as the “Punch Bowl.”
ing items of interest and news as well as the articles about At the request of Superintendent K. E. Oberholtzer, a com-
unusual and outstanding activities throughout the state that mittee has been appointed in Long Beach to determine the
have been appearing in this book in the past. need for physical education facilities in that city.

124. HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

|
|
| , |
ARIZONA woe ew ew ew lee lel eC~SCBy «~Theod Neely Many who wish to enroll are prevented from so doing because !
Groups of freshmen tennis, golf, and volleyball players from of limited equipment. ;
the State College at Tempe have visited a number of high Visitors on the Iowa State Teachers College campus during |
schools in the state, playing practice games and matches. On the fall quarter included Dr. Jay B. Nash of New York Uni- !
some of the trips a group of college dancers have given pro- versity, and Vytautas Beliajus, a Lithuanian folk dancer.
grams. The Department of Physical Education for Women, Iowa |
Phoenix Union High School had a playday on January 24, State Teachers College, has submitted to the administrative
with physical education majors from Arizona State College officers a list of suggestions relative to its function in the
acting as officials. defense program. Among the suggestions for expanding the
On January 30, the Physical Education major group of the usefulness of its facilities, program, and personnel are:
State College at Tempe will go to the mountains near Prescott 1. Encouragement of all women students to engage in daily
for their annual outing in the snow. wigorous physical education class work or free recreation, to
The advanced dance groups along with the college dramatics take first-aid courses, fire fighting, and home-nursing.
and music departments are contributing to the entertainment 2. Opening up facilities and leadership to the community for
of the cadets of Luke Field, other air bases, and the Cavalry projects relating to Civilian Defense, e.g., such activity classes
Unit by giving a series of programs. as swimming, lifesaving, games and sports, as well as first aid,
home care of the sick, etc.
R. O. Abbett, president of the Iowa State Physical Educa-
tion Association, writes that a committee of the Iowa Associa-
bd ° tion, in close cooperation with Jessie Parker, Superintendent
Centr al Distr ict od of Public Instruction, is speedily revising and streamlining the
; ; physical education program in educational institutions. To meet
the emergency in national defense, a war-time physical condi-
fe Association News tioning program of greater intensity is in formation. This
program will be discussed in six district conferences during the
| second week of February and explained by the leaders to the
| President—J. H. Morrison, S.T.C., Wayne, Nebraska coordinators who will, in turn, apply the plan in their localities.
President-Elect—Gertrude Baker, University of Minnesota A committee of the state association is mapping out a pro-
Vice-President—Harley Robertson, N.S.T.C., Aberdeen, S. D. gram of physical education best suited to fit high school boys
| Secy.-Treas.—Merle Henre, Public Schools, Kansas City, Kans. for the present emergency.
Announcement NEBRASKA .... . ....... By Virginia Woolfolk
Members of the Central District Association are reminded The Wayne State Teachers College is at the present time
of their privilege of suggesting for nomination, candidates for revamping its physical education course. Some thought is given
the office of President-Elect of the National Association for to the possibility of requiring physical education for four years.
Health, Physical Education, and Recreation. At the present time the College is sending publicity to the
Your suggestions should be sent to Dr. Ralph Piper, As- northeast Nebraska high schools asking them to indicate what
sistant Professor of Physical Education, University of Min- they are doing to meet the national emergency with a practical
nesota, Minneapolis, who is the representative of our District physical fitness program.
on the National Nominating Committee. DeWitt Carlson presented a Thanksgiving pageant which
MERLE HENRE was very well received by the community.
Pender, Nebraska, public schools have inaugurated an exten-
COLORADO ...... +. =. +. + By Chet O’Hanlon sive physical education program this year. Undoubtedly more
A committee of Denver physical education teachers under the northeast Nebraska schools will follow suit.
direction of Willard N. Greim and Maisie Hoyt have been busy Supt. Litherland of the Wayne public schools has inaugurated
working on the annual Play Festival to be held in March, 1942. an extensive elementary school physical education program and
Five numbers each will be given by the junior and senior high plans eventually to have the entire graded program in the
schools, and six by the elementary grades. At least six thou- Wayne public schools.
sand school youngsters will participate in this gigantic demon-
stration of rhythm activities. SOUTH DAKOTA
Bill Reed has returned to his old position in the public school Elizabeth Meyer ‘and Evelyn Kinney are new faculty mem-
system of Loveland as physical education director after a year’s bers in the Department of Physical Education at the University
leave as a commissioned officer with the U. S. Army. of South Dakota. Miss Meyer received her M.S. degree from
Mrs. Bessie Satrions, Denver, was elected Chairman of the the University of Pittsburgh and Miss Kinney received her
Eastern Division of the State Health and Physical Education B.S. degree from the University of Kansas.
Association for the coming year. Other officers elected are: Miss Kinney has been appointed as State G.A.A. Secretary
Emest Rossi, Lakewood, Vice-President; David Boardman, and Treasurer. This office was previously held by Mrs. L.
Denver, Secretary-Treasurer. Ernest Hatkins, Pueblo was Gillespie, (Naoma Langhout), formerly of the University of
elected chairman of the Southern Division; Merl Peek, Pueblo, South Dakota.
Secretary-Treasurer ; and Monroe McPhetres, Salida, Delegate- Myrtle Spande, Yankton High School, succeeds Mrs. T. C. ,
at-Large. Geary (Lois L. Dicken) formerly of the University of South
Percy Clapp, Colorado State College of Education, who is Dakota, as State Representative for the National Section on
on leave of absence, has been teaching at New York University Women’s Athletics. Members on the N.S.W.A. State Com-
during the fall term. mittee are: Allys B. Collings, Augustana College, Sioux Falls;
After Gene Tunney’s visit to Colorado on behalf of the U. S. Elsie Krause, Deadwood High School; Leota Van Ornum,
Marines, a number of physical education instructors from Pierre High School; Harley L. Robertson, Northern State
various sections of the state have volunteered for a physical Teachers College, Aberdeen; Evelyn Kinney, University of
education position with the Marines. Many more are looking South Dakota, Vermillion; Ruth Clemens, Central High
forward to giving their services in this manner. School, Aberdeen; Elinor Danforth, Washington High School,
OWA... . . . «. « «~~. ~ By Dorothy Humiston Sioux Falls.
In spite of subzero weather, sixty enthusiastic women at Iowa WYOMING ..... . . . «. ~. . By Edna Cole
State Teachers College, Cedar Falls, are enrolled in winter The finished revision of the constitution of the Wyoming
sports classes in which they learn ice skating, cross-country Girls’ Athletic Association will be ready in February.
skiing, sledding, and many games appropriate to Iowa winters. The high school boys and girls in Midwest will be given
FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 125

the opportunity to take a standard first-aid course during of the Tulsa Rifle Club have been most cooperative and helpful :
study hall periods. in teaching these beginners. Miss Davis, an enthusiastic marks-

An Aquacade, presented and composed by the girls of Casper | man, is a real inspiration to the members of the club. She won
High School, was filmed; these films are for school and class 43 medals last summer, two of them in the National matches |
use. A basketball clinic to train the grade school coaches and at Camp Perry, Ohio. |
teachers was held recently in Casper. Central High School at Oklahoma City, a downtown school

without any outside facilities, has worked out a very effective
NY corecreational program for the lunch hour. The student council !
is sponsoring the project, and students act as officials, while

S h Di ° Ruth Craig and Kathryn Norris serve as faculty supervisors.

out er Nn istr ict oe In addition to the activities scheduled in the school gymna3ium,
activities are offered under faculty supervision through the use
A . . N of a skating rink a block and a half away and a nearby bowling
ete ssociation ews alley; both of these establishments give very low rates to the
students. The entire faculty of the school is behind the project
| and feel that it has real merit.
President—Ethel J. Saxman, University, Alabama Oklahoma A. and M. College will lose Ruth Wilkin in
President-Elect—E. Benton Salt, Gainesville, F lorida February when she goes to Council Bluffs, Iowa, to serve as
Past President—Lynn B. Sherill, University, Louisiana Girl. Scout Executive Secretary
Secy.-Treas.—M. E. Potter, Lexington, Kentucky Th Oklah A and M " d . hvsical !
Vice-President—Jeanie Pinckney, Austin, Texas ree Uxianoma £4. anc Ml. gra uates are serving as physical
Vice-President—Harlan G. Metcalf, Nashville, Tennessee education directors in Army air bases. They are Ross Flood, |
Vice-President—Henry Dresser, University, Louisiana Randolph Field, Texas; Holmes Underhill, Chickasha, Okla-
Member-at-Large—Oliver K. Cornwell, Chapel Hill, N. C. homa; and Floyd Burdett, who ts located in Louisiana.
Member-at-Large—Helen Corrubia, Tulsa, Oklahoma
News Editor—Hazel A. Richardson, Denton, Texas TENNESSEE . . . . . . . . . By Catherine Allen
ARKANSAS. . . . . . . . ._ By Maurice Clay to Ww . Hobt aysical Paucation Deparment, pniversity of :
The Arkansas Association for Health. Physical Education ennessee, has been grante at ree-mont eave of absence to
. cath, shysical Education, serve the state in the organization of a program of general |
and Recreation sponsored this year for the first time, an ele- physical fitness to be initiated in all the schools of Tennessee.
Ahan, a yen oe a Secondary schoo! un program at the The “M Club” of Maryville College is sponsoring a Civilian

George Hawks, former Athletic Director at Fairview High First Aid Training Project this year. |
School, Camden, Arkansas, is now Physical Director at Grider TEXAS . .... . . . . By Jeanie M. Pinckney }
Flying Field, Pine Bluff, Arkansas. Harry Scott of The Rice Institute and Gertrude Mooney of !

Russell Charles, former physical education director for men the University of Texas have been appointed Eighth Corps
at Henderson State Teachers College, Arkadelphia, is now a Area directors for the Physical Fitness Program for men and |
Physical Director in the Southeastern Air Corps Training women respectively. |
Center. Dr. Anne Schley Duggan, President of the American Asso- |
GEORGIA... .. . .. . .. «sSi««w:s«#B- Jj. Lewis Cook ciation for Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, and

Edith Guill has been appointed Chairman of the Department Director of the Department of Health and Physical Elucation,
of Physical Education for Women at the Georgia Teachers Texas State College for Women, Denton, has recent ly been :
College in Statesboro. Maybeth Carithers will serve as an appointed Deputy Coordinator for the National Physical Fit- |
assistant in the Department. ness Program through Schools and Colleges. Dr. Duggan’s

appointment was made at the request of Mrs. Eleanor Roose-
: KENTUCKY . . . . . . By Thomas E. McDonough velt, Assistant Director of the Office of Civilian Defense, and

Eastern Kentucky State Teachers College, Richmond, is of- John B. Kelly, Director of the Physical Fitness Division of
fering courses in First Aid and Safety, Lifesaving and Water the Office of Civilian Defense. Dr. Duggan attended a meeting
Safety, and Physical Fitness. Men and women of all ages have of the Coordinators of the Physical Fitness Program through
been invited to participate in these activities. All facilities of Schools and Colleges in New York City in December; from
the Weaver Health Building are available for this work from New York City she went to Syracuse, New York, to attend
5:00 to 7:00 p. m. daily. These classes are sponsored by the the New York State meeting devoted to the launching of the
Eastern Physical Education Club. movement in the state. Before returning to Texas, Dr. Duggan

Thomas FE. McDonough, Director of Physical Education, met in conferences with various governmental officials in

Fastern State Teachers College, was elected President of the Washington, D. C.
Fourth District Southern Intercollegiate Athletic Association C. J. Alderson, University of Texas, is this term attending
at the annual mceting of the association at Tampa, Florida, on Columbia University to finish work on his dissertation.
December 29. At this meeting the S. I. A. A. went on record Lucille Douglass, Baylor University, is editor this year for
in favor of playing freshmen on all varsity teams during 1942. the news bulletin of the Texas Health, Physical Education, and

Mary Stayton has been appointed a part-time instructor in Recreation Association.

e the Physical Education Department at Eastern State. Pete Shands of North Texas State Teachers College is
, . working on his doctorate and serving as part-time instructor
alraaictien ST By Valerie Colvin in the Department of Health and Physical Education at the
e physical education teachers of the Oklahoma City school University of T
. . y of Texas.
system have organized this fall; they meet every six weeks
to discuss problems and view demonstrations. The group is IN MEMORIAM
issuing a monthly bulletin containing suggested projects, ideas, } Mary Eleanor Finney
and methods for better programs of physical education. Lewis Members of the Association will be shocked to learn of the
Braden of Central High School is chairman of the group. tragic death of Mary Eleanor Finney in a bus accident last

Helen Davis of Horace Mann Junior High School in Tulsa Octqber. Miss Finney, who was Supervisor of Health and
is developing great interest in the school in a Rifle Club, which Physical Education at the Alabama College Laboratory Schools,
now has 35 members. They meet at the Armory once a week, received her B.A. from Alabama College in 1938 and the M.A.
using guns belonging to the Tulsa Rifle Club and to members from Columbia University this past summer. The South has
of the school club. The girls pay one dollar a year for dues lost a young educator of professional promise who, in her
to cover the cost of renting the armory and of targets. Miss limited career, had won for herself a recognized place among
Davis feels that the interest is sincere and reports that members her associates.—By Margaret McCall.

. 126 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION
|

all
NEW YORK ...... .. . . By Iva B. Bennett
e e Section meetings of the New York State Council on Health
E astern District ofe Teaching were held at the December Conference of the State
Health and Physical Education Association in Albany, December
e e 29-31. The Constitution and By-Laws of the New York State
fe Association News Council on Health Teaching were discussed and adopted. This
organization includes the Health Teaching Supervisors in the ,
schools of the state and others whose major interest falls in
President—W. F. Meredith, University of Pennsylvania the health teaching area of education. . .
President-Elect—Ruth Evans, Public Schools, Springfield, Mass. _ The purpose of this organization as stated in the constitu:
Past President—W. L. Hughes, Columbia University tion is: To increase the understanding of sound, basic health
Vice-President (Health)—George W. Ayars, State Education teaching and to extend and improve present practices in the
Department, Dover, Delaware school health programs in New York State. ;
Vice-President (Phys. Ed.)—C. L. Brownell, Columbia Uni- The fdéllowing officers were elected for the new year: Presi-
; versity ; oo. dent, Mary E. Bowen, Health Teaching Supervisor, Depart-
See pecicent Rec.) Shae Gey Atlantic City x. , ment of Education, Syracuse; President-Elect, Maud Luscomb,
° ° . ’ roe Director of Health Teaching, Department of Education, Bing-
: MASSACHUSETTS . . . . .. By Mary Isabell Caldwell hamton ; Secretary-Treas., Iva B. Bennett, Supervisor of
| The Division of University Extension, State Department of Health Teaching, Department of Education, Baldwin.
Education, has arranged for a course in skiing, which is being The members of this group have been meeting annually for
given by Harriette Aull of Smith College. The class meets several years, studying present health practices in the school
| Wednesdays from 7 to 9 p.m. in the Greenfield, Massachusetts, programs of the State, assisting in the development of cur-
| Senior High School. riculum materials of the State Education Department, and using
| E. Lloyd Boutilier, teacher-coach at the Amesbury Junior their local situations to test the practicability of these materials.
High School, reports the following to the State Department: PENNSYLVANIA . 2 « « « . By Elizabeth McHose
1. Seventy-eight per cent of the boys in the junior high The Pennsylvania State Council of Defense has appointed
school participated in each of eight sports during a two-year Dr. Wynn Fredericks, State Director of Health and Physical
period. . Education, as Director of the Physical Fitness Program in
2. Sports consisted of ping-pong, horseshoes, volleyball, touch this state. Pennsylvania has been divided into nine districts
football, basketball, softball, and baseball. which correspond with those of our State Association, and a
3. Most equipment was provided by, and conditioning of District Director of Physical Fitness has been appointed in
suitable areas done by, the boys at no expense to the school each of them as follows: Central, Dr. Lloyd M. Jones, The
department. Pennsylvania State College; Midwestern, Archie Dodds, State
4. Central thought: “Every boy a participant.” Teachers College, Slippery Rock; Eastern, Emanuel Jacobs,
The following information was sent to the superintendents of Senior High School, Reading ; Southern, Arnold Fink, Director
schools and to the heads of private organizations having con- of Physical Education, Lancaster; Northwestern, Harry Sigel,
tacts with schools, by the School Health Council of Mass- Director of Physical Education, Franklin; Western, Dr. EI-
achusetts : wood C. Davis, University of Pittsburgh; Southeastern, Dr.
“This Council was formed for the purpose of coordinating William F. Meredith, University of Pennsylvania ; Northeastern,
the work of the Massachusetts Departments of Public Health Oscar Liljenstein, Director of Physical Education, East Strouds-
and Education and other agencies interested in the school burg State Teachers College; Philadelphia City School Dis-
health program. Its purposes are: (1) to formulate policies trict, Gustave H. Heineman, Office of Civilian Defense, Phila-
pertaining to the school health program; (2) to act as ad- delphia.
viser and coordinator to private agencies in their relation to The Legislative Committee, P.S.A.H.P.E.R., has been ex-
the school health program, and (3) to stimulate increased tremely active in its endeavors to improve and expand the
interest and activity in such a program.” program in health and physical education in this state. Their
Dr. Fredrika Moore is the chairman of this Council and recommendations to the State Superintendent of Public In-
Jean Latimer is secretary. struction and to the Governor appear in the January issue of ;
; the Pennsylvania Journal of Health, Physical Education, and
NEW JERSEY . . . . . . . . By L. Maude Norris Recreation. Dr. Frederick W. Luehring, University of Penn-
The members of the New Jersey Association for Health and sylvania, is the Chairman of this Committee.
Physical Education, representing twelve hundred teachers of The Western District Association will hold a public meeting
health and physical education, adopted a resolution at the in Memorial Hall, Pittsburgh, February 16, at which the
convention in December, held in Paterson, pledging their sup- Honorable John B. Kelly, National Director of Physical Fit-
port to the President and the Congress of the United States ness, Civilian Defense, will be the speaker. The American
and to the Governor of New Jersey in this crucial hour. The Legion, Kiwanis Club, Parent-Teachers Association, and other
text of the resolution ts: service organizations are cooperating.
WuHeEreas, The United States of America is at war, and
WHEREAS, This national emergency has the whole-hearted
approval of the nation, and IN MEMORIAM
Whurereas, The entire resources of the nation are at the William E. Braucher
disposal of the President of these United States, and William E. Braucher, for more than sixteen years health in-
Whereas, This organization is composed of men and structor and Director of Physical Education at the Palmerton,
women whose duty it is to care for the physical education Pennsylvania, High School, died suddenly of a heart ailment
of the youth of the State of New Jersey; be it therefore at his home on August 14, 1941. Generally regarded by his
Resolved, That the President of these United States, colleagues, supervisors, fellow-townspeople, and rival coaches
the Congress of the United States, and the Governor of the as an outstanding example of good sportsmanship and clean
State of New Jersey, be informed that the entire membership living, Mr. Braucher played a leading role in community life.
of the organization holds itself in readiness to execute any He was educated at Keystone State Normal School, The
assignment allocated to it for the successful prosecution of Pennsylvania State College, and New York University, re-
this war; and be it further ceiving the M.A. degree from the latter institution in 1935.
Resolved, That this organization, recognizing the power He was an active member in many educational groups, serving
of Almighty God, invoke His aid to our cause and grant as President of the Eastern Pennsylvania Health and Physical
us His blessing in this, the hour of need. Education Association in 1940-1941.
FEBRUARY, 1942, VOLUME 13, NO. 2 127

All-American Square Dances. “Allemande” Al Muller. (New
York: Paull-Pioneer Music Corporation, 1941).
N B L R ° d An experienced square dancer from the Adirondack Moun-
ew OO Ss eceive tain region has collected music, steps, and calls for a large
number of square dances, with useful hints for teachers, callers,
and dancers. The book is fun to read, and looks as if it would
, ' be even more fun to put into practice.
i Fl H ich. (N
Se ee eee fol Coming of Age Esher LlydsJones and Ruth Felder. (Nev

This book contains useful practical material on the playing Th, " il in ay jen : h ) feld youre ha t
and coaching of two popular and inexpensive team sports for wo well-known leaders in the held of guidance have writ-
high school and college girls. Individual techniques, team ten a helpful book for young people, covering the main problems
tactics, practice drills, umpiring, and teaching and coaching of adolescence and. the - nvtate, or m cong. mese Problems
hints are covered in detail by an author who has had extensive in Individual stmuations. € materia’ 1s practical, and ts pre-
experience with both sports sented in simple, direct form, with frequent illustrations from

P ports. case histories.
Posture Training and Remedial Gymnastics. Albert J. Baum- Microbes Which Help or Destroy Us. Paul Allen, D. Frank

gartner. (Minneapolis: Burgess Publishing Company, Holtman, and Louise Allen McBee. (St. Louis: C. V.

1941) 145 pages, mimeoprinted, $2.25. Mosby Company, 1941) 540 pages.

Mr. Baumgartner is qualified to write this book by his long A book designed to make microbes intelligible to the lay-
experience as a teacher of remedial gymnastics at the State man, and to present a clear picture of the role of microbes in
University of Iowa. He covers all phases of the remedial pro- the life of man and the domestic animals and plants. Included
gram in considerable detail. The foreword is by Dr. Arthur are interesting sketches of the historical development of the |
J. Steindler, noted orthopedic surgeon. | study of microbes, and helpful material on the public health as-
Proceedings of the National Council of Social Work. (N ew pects of bacteria. |

York: Columbia University Press, 1941) 787 pages, $5.00. |

This compilation of the most important papers given at the |
National Conference for Social Work is of permanent value }
te anyone interested in the social welfare and community aspects | N D E X TO A DV E RT | S E R S |
Ice Hockey. Eddie Jeremiah (New York: A. S. Barnes and MANUFACTURERS |

Company, 1942) 120 pages, $1.00. gom Broderick Co... ew tw ee ww we te we es t0

This addition to the dollar sports library gives technical CB Dolge. Co... ccc ecceueeeeveceteeee . 105
material on a thrilling sport, by a well-known coach. Emphasis Hood Rubber Co.....-...: cee cecccercececces 109
is on the fundamentals of good play, with many diagrams and Huntington Laboratories, Inc............--Cover II
photographs to illustrate the techniques discussed. Kaspar Wire Works- ee 3

. cArthur an MSs ee weer eee e ra crecccves
Field Hockey for Girls. Josephine Lees. (New York: A. S. Fred Medart Manufacturing Co.............-++ 109

Barnes and Company, 1942) 88 pages, $1.00. E. R. Moore Co... -- +--+ +- e+ eee eee eee Cover NK

A practical book for the beginning or advanced player or Narragansett Machine Co.- +--+ +++ -+++++seee ee
coach, with emphasis on fundamental techniques and on the Kational, Spo Sth Co. ee - +108, 1?
relation of each player to the rest of the team in all phases Personal Products Corp.. eee 103
of offensive and defensive play. Petersen and Co... eee eee tee e tere nes 113
Swimming. R. J. H. Kiphuth. (New York: A. S. Barnes and Tonnes Manufacturin e Co. cee eee eetsene Mi

Company, 1942) 110 pages, $1.00. W. J. Voit Rubber Corp............00eeeeeee HL

One of the outstanding swimming coaches of the country
has condensed into handy form his sound advice on training we ; PUBLISHERS
and practice for competitive swimming. Special conditioning Philip C. Aspinwall... +--+ esses eeeeeeeeees WS
exercises are included, and an interesting chapter discusses the ‘ 5. Barnes and C0.- +e errr reer eer eees 96°07
history of competitive swimming, with special reference to the DC Heath “and ‘Co ee 66
development of the crawl stroke. Lea and Febiger . - . . cece eee eeveneececceceas 714
Planning Industrial Recreation. F. R. Eastwood and G. H. Tea IIEIIEE ay

a ens (Lafayette, Indiana: Purdue University, 1941) Scholastic Coach Bookshop.........-..+-++-+ 108

Dr. Eastwood and his associate have continued the study SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES
of industrial recreation programs with a further survey of exist- Arnold College... . 0-20 e cece cece cece cece ee MZ |
ing practices and problems, and have prepared suggested recom- Bouve-Boston School of Physical Education...... 115
mendations for the organization and administration of such a Chalif Normal School of Dance...--.--++-+-- 123
program in accordance with practices proved most successful. Harvard Medical School.........+++++++++++ 101

Sargent College of Boston University..-......-- 66
Training and Efficiency. E. Jokl, E. H. Cluver, C. Goedvolk, eavage School for Physical Education: - - - - “Gover If

and’. W. de Jongh. (Johannesburg: South African In: | poripetied, College, 00+ ----0---00-77- Cover 11

stitute for Medical Research, 1941) 188 pages. . University of Michigan.............eeeeeee++ 105

Dr. Jokl and his associates of the Institute for Medical Wellesley College........-......+..+.+--Cover IIT
Research report the results of numerous comparative anthro- |
pometric studies of the effect of exercise and activity programs MISCELLANEOUS |
on a group of unemployed young men in a Special Service Hughes Teachers Agency....-----+--+-e+seeee++ 115 |
Battalion. These studies should be of interest to research work- Rocky Mountain Teachers Agency..-..--+----- 115
ers in this country and to all who are concerned with increasing Roosevelt Hotel (New Orleans)..-.--.-.----- ILS
the physical fitness of youth.

_ 128 HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

